Provide controlled drugs prescription book Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Book Fees: AED 100 About the Service This services enables medical establishments to submit application to receive controlled drugs prescription pads to be used in prescribing inpatient controlled medicines. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The customer shall fill the application form requesting the issuance of the controlled drugs book, and submit it online 3 The application will be reviewed and verified by the Drug Department 4 If the application is approved, the customer shall pay the associated fees online 5 Once the payment is processed, the controlled prescription book will be sent to the customer by courier Conditions & Requirements The healthcare facility must hold a valid license. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Book Fees: AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website Service
license. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Book Fees: AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Mohab Website Support controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Inpatient ward hospitals, licensed by MOHAP or DHCC One day Surgery Clinics licensed by MOHAP or DHCC Resources Ministerial Decree No Infographic_Provide controlled drugs prescription book Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-006-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 576 Notes The service is only available for healthcare facilities licensed by MOHAP and DHCC. Required Documents A Letter addressed to the Director of the Drug Department requesting issuance of the prescription book. Copy of the facility license.
Issue a Health Facility License Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Approval of the application: 1 working day<... View more Service fees License Application Fees: AED 100 Initial Inspection Fees: About the Service This service allows health facilities to obtain the necessary license to practice and provide health and treatment services in the UAE. Such facilities include public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit a request to obtain the health facility license. 3 Submit an application for initial inspection. 4 Once the initial inspection is approved, submit an application to study the architectural plan and pay the fee. 5 Once the site plan is
initial inspection is approved, submit an application to study the architectural plan and pay the fee. 5 Once the site plan is approved, the initial approval for inspection will be issued. 6 Apply for initial license approval and pay the application fee. 7 Obtain the license requirements from relevant government entities, such as Civil Defense. 8 Apply for licensing of the medical staff (doctors, technicians, nurses). 9 Apply for final inspection. 10 Once the final inspection is approved, pay the final licensing fee and submit the remaining documents. 11 License will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website. Conditions & Requirements The following documents are required to be attached to the owner's page: A copy of the owner's passport A copy of the owner’s family book A copy of Emirates ID Recent passport-size photos with white background A character reference (document available in Customer Happiness Centers) must be completed by the
photos with white background A character reference (document available in Customer Happiness Centers) must be completed by the owner; licensing procedures will resume after the approval of the authority concerned. A non-national can own a health facility provided that the local authority to which the facility belongs issues an approval letter regarding the percentage of foreign ownership. An electric elevator must be installed if the facility consists of high floors. Compliance with engineering conditions and standards for licensing health facilities (regulations for healthcare facilities.) Initial approval will be valid for six (6) months only, which is the period granted to the owner to meet all the technical requirements and conditions for obtaining the MOHAP license. The initial approval does not imply the approval to practice or operate the facility; it is only granted in order to complete the procedures required to obtain the license. FAQ’s How can I get a letter of No
it is only granted in order to complete the procedures required to obtain the license. FAQ’s How can I get a letter of No objection/ to whom it may concern, to process transactions with other government entities? You can visit the Customer Happiness Center in the Medical District where the facility is located Service completion duration Approval of the application: 1 working day Final licensing: 2 working days Engineering team approval: Initial inspection: 2 working days Verification of the facility plan: 5 to 7 working days Final inspection: 7 to10 working days Service fees License Application Fees: AED 100 Initial Inspection Fees: Hospital/Convalescent Home/Fertility Center/Emergency Center/Home Medical Center: AED 2,000 General Clinic/Specialist Clinic/Medical Center/Medical Diagnosis Center/Rehabilitation Center: AED 1,000 Verifying Site Plan Fees: Hospital/Convalescent Home/Fertility Center/Emergency Center/Home Medical Center: AED2,000 General Clinic/Specialist Clinic/Medical
Home/Fertility Center/Emergency Center/Home Medical Center: AED2,000 General Clinic/Specialist Clinic/Medical Center/Medical Diagnosis Center/Rehabilitation Center: AED 1,000 Re-verifying Geometric Site Plan Fees: Hospital/Convalescent Home/Fertility Center/Emergency Center/Home Medical Center: AED1,000 General Clinic/Specialist Clinic/Medical Center/Medical Diagnosis Center/Rehabilitation Center: AED 500 Final License Fees: General Clinic/Rehabilitation Center/Home Health Center: AED 5,000 Specialist Clinic/Medical Diagnosis Center/Emergency Center: AED 6,000 Multi-Specialty Clinic: AED 12,000 - AED 18,000 Fertility Center/Convalescent Home/One-Day Surgery: AED 20,000 Hospital (1 to 50 beds): AED 20,000 Hospital (50 to 100 beds): AED 30,000 Hospital (100+ beds): AED 40,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email:
info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources User manual Medical Licensing system User Manual- Engineering Department Initial site inspection checklist- Medical facility Initial site inspection checklist- School clinics Initial site inspection checklist- Nursery clinics Initial site inspection checklist- Eye testing facility Initial site inspection checklist- Homecare Final inspection checklist-Medical facility Hospital Regulation One day surgery Center Regulation Outpatient Regulation Rehabilitation center Regulation Home Care services Regulations - Available in Arabic Oncology center Regulation Renal Dialysis Center Regulations IVF Center Regulation Cardiac Catheterization Unit Regulation Clinical Laboratory Regulation Dental Laboratory
Regulations IVF Center Regulation Cardiac Catheterization Unit Regulation Clinical Laboratory Regulation Dental Laboratory Regulation Diagnostic Imaging Regulation Mobile Transportable And Reloadable Regulation Water Birthing Unit Regulation School Clinic Regulation Nursery Clinic checklist - Available in Arabic Nutrition Center Regulation - Available in Arabic Standard Submission Form DWG Standard Submission Form PDF Infographic - Issue a Health Facility License - PDF 462KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Ministry of Interior: Owner's security clearance Economic Development Departments: Reserving the trade name MOHAP: Medical profession practicing license Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation: Issuance of a radiation protection
name MOHAP: Medical profession practicing license Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation: Issuance of a radiation protection license Civil Defense: Issuance of a certificate of civil defense Medical Waste Disposal Agreement from the authorities concerned in each emirate Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 11037 Number of Transactions 181 Notes None  Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents The following documents are required to be attached to the owner's page: A copy of the owner's passport A copy of the owner’s family book A copy of the Emirates ID Recent passport-size photos with white background A character reference (document available in Customer Happiness Centers) must be completed by the owner; licensing procedures will resume after the approval of the authority concerned Initial approval of inspection: An application letter from the owner requesting the license of the medical facility A letter addressed
approval of inspection: An application letter from the owner requesting the license of the medical facility A letter addressed 'To whomsoever it may concern' The plan of the facility Photos of the site Statement of the total number of students, including gender and school stage, and the capacity of the facility (in the case of school and nursery clinics) Initial approval of the license: The facility's plan with initial approval from MOHAP engineers License of the Department of Economic Development Application letter of the facility Security clearance of owner Proof of owner's qualifications Final approval of inspection: The facility's plan with initial approval of MOHAP engineers The facility's plan with final approval of MOHAP engineers Final approval of the license: External billboard of the facility Medical waste agreement List of medical equipment Services price list License of radiation protection (issued by the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation) Trade license issued by
price list License of radiation protection (issued by the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation) Trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development Certificate of preventive safety (issued by the Civil Defense) List of partners' names Internal regulations and rules of the facility The facility's plan with final approval of MOHAP engineers Registration in Tatmeen Registration in Riayati
Issue a Good Standing Certificate for a Health Professional Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Nursing professionals, medical professionals and d... Pharmacists and assistant pharmacists: AED 300 About the Service This service allows medical staff from public and private sectors to apply for certificate of good professional conduct Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service 2 Submit the required documents as per the type of sector, and pay the required amount 3 If the conditions are met, the applicant will receive the certificate by email It can be downloaded from the website or smart app as well Conditions & Requirements Good standing certificate will not be issued to a trainee, a visitor, or to who only has an initial license Good standing certificate will not be issued to those who are not licensed by the Ministry of Health and prevention The customer must be
certificate will not be issued to those who are not licensed by the Ministry of Health and prevention The customer must be licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention for more than 3 months The customer must not have been sentenced for a medical offense or violation that prohibits the issuance of the certificate The certificate is valid for 6 months from the date of issuance Medical staff in the private sector: For the pharmacist or assistant pharmacist: A letter of experience from the employer, certified by the Department of Medicine in the Ministry of Health and Prevention For the manual license: specifying the purpose of the application (issue of a good professional conduct certificate) Medical staff in the government sector: The customer must have evaluation certificate or licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention FAQ’s How long will the certificate be valid? The certificate is valid for 6 months from the date of issue Service completion duration 3 working days
certificate be valid? The certificate is valid for 6 months from the date of issue Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Nursing professionals, medical professionals and doctors: AED 500 Pharmacists and assistant pharmacists: AED 300 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical physicians and dentists Specialist and consultant doctors Technicians, nurses and midwives Alternative medicine practitioners Pharmacists and assistant pharmacists Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of Medical Professionals Service Code 110-040-015-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to
Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes Please note that if the applicant works in one of the private outsourcing companies contracting with the Emirates Health Services Corporation, he must apply for a service card to obtain a certificate of good standing and professional conduct in the government sector Required Documents Medical staff in the private sector: A copy of medical profession practice card (electronic license issued by MOHAP) A copy of a valid passport A copy of a valid passport An experience certificate issued from the private medical facility, approved by the medical director In case of license cancellation please attach the cancellation letter from MOHAP Medical staff in the government sector: A letter of experience from the Department of Human Resources - Ministry of Health and Prevention or Emirates Health Services from Bayanati An electronic experience certificate
Resources - Ministry of Health and Prevention or Emirates Health Services from Bayanati An electronic experience certificate for licensing purposes, signed by the medical/technical director from HR gate of Emirates Health Services A letter of experience from the employer approved by the outsourcing company. It should include the dates of experience, the name of the facility in which the employee works, which must be affiliated with the Emirates Health Services (EHS) A copy of the license issued by MOHAP A copy of valid passport Copy of evaluation certificate (issued by the MOHAP)
Appeal Against Medical Licensing Committee Decisions Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 30 working days View more Service fees Free About the Service This service enables the owners of medical and pharmaceutical establishments, and members of their medical and technical teams, to appeal the decisions of the Medical Licensing Committee. Service Process 1 An appeal against the decision of the Medical or Pharmaceutical Licensing Committee should be submitted to the Office of the Minister of Health and Prevention. 2 The appeal will then be transferred to the Public Health Policy and Licensing Sector (Health Governance Section). 3 The relevant documents will be submitted to the Grievance Committee. 4 A letter of response to the appeal will be sent after it has been studied by the Grievance Committee. Conditions & Requirements Appeals may be lodged within 15 days from the date of receiving the decision of the Medical Licensing Committee. Service completion duration
lodged within 15 days from the date of receiving the decision of the Medical Licensing Committee. Service completion duration 30 working days Service fees Free Service channels Service Centers Service locations Customer Happiness Center, Ministry of Health and Prevention office, Dubai, Muhaisnah 2 from Sunday to Thursday (7:00 am - 15:30 pm) Medical areas related to MOHAP in Sharjah and the northern emirates: from Sunday to Thursday (7:30 am to 14:30 pm) Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Companies and investors in the health, health products and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Appeal Against Medical Licensing Committee Decisions Department name Empowerment & Health Compliance Sector name Health Regulation Main service Control and Inspection Service Code 110-07-006-006 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Required Documents A letter of appeal addressed to the Minister of Health and Prevention, and no other agent
Type Auxiliary Required Documents A letter of appeal addressed to the Minister of Health and Prevention, and no other agent or person. All documents related to the grievance must be submitted, namely: Letter of grievance. Decision of the Medical Licensing Committee. Subject (Medical Complaint or Inspection Report). Documents and evidence related to the subject.
Licensing of a Visiting Doctor from the UAE Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 License for visiting physician from outside the U... About the Service This service enables medical facilities to apply for approval for a visiting doctor from the UAE to practice in the medical or dental profession for a limited period in a private health facility. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility and provide all the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application. If the application meets the requirements, it will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee
requirements, it will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all the conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements Visiting doctors may work in no more than two entities. Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 License for visiting
more than two entities. Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 License for visiting physician from outside the UAE: AED 4,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Health facilities, specialist doctors, and consultant doctors Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Login User Manual Infographic - Licensing of a Visiting Doctor from the UAE - PDF 369KB Department name Regulation, Licensing & Advertisement Department Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-006-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 163 Number of
is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 163 Number of Transactions 456 Notes None Required Documents Job offer Copy of permanent license Plan of the facility approved by MOHAP engineers Certificate of good conduct (for doctors of Dubai Health Authority) Certificate of experience Insurance against medical errors Facility license List of licensed doctors and technicians in the facility Letter of undertaking from the doctor with the number of licenses License of the doctor responsible for following up cases
Approve narcotic drugs for internal pharmacies at private hospitals Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration One hour View more Service fees Application Fee AED100 About the Service This service allows submitting a request to obtain approval to determine narcotic drugs quotas for new establishments or to modify narcotic drugs quotas of establishments already registered at MOHAP, for use within the establishment, in order to purchase narcotics from the local agent or MOHAP's central warehouses for use within the establishment. Service Process 1 The customer shall submit the request, complete the form F6 (Approve/Adjust Narcotic Quota), and attach the relevant documents. 2 The request will be endorsed by the employee concerned. 3 The customer shall pay the submission fee. 4 The employee concerned will approve and forward the approval to the customer via email. Conditions & Requirements The quantities of drugs expected to be used annually should be determined. Service
via email. Conditions & Requirements The quantities of drugs expected to be used annually should be determined. Service completion duration One hour Service fees Application Fee AED100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies within hospitals One day surgery centers Resources Form RDC-NP-F06 NARCOTIC QUOTA ADJUST Infographic_Approve narcotic drugs for internal pharmacies at private hospitals Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-007-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 8 Required Documents A copy of valid license of the hospital/one-day surgery clinic. A copy of valid license of the pharmacy. A copy of valid
A copy of valid license of the hospital/one-day surgery clinic. A copy of valid license of the pharmacy. A copy of valid license of pharmacist/ one-day surgery clinic. Form for the custody of narcotic drugs. An official letter from the technical director of the hospital/day surgery clinic including the hospital's need for drugs, identification of the types and quantities of narcotic drugs (standard stock), drug concentration, number of hospital beds and operations performed with identification of the custodian of drugs. A copy of trade license of the hospital/one-day surgery clinic. A copy of chamber of commerce A copy of the commercial license of the hospital / day surgery clinic. Complete the Form of "approval/determination or modification of quotas of the drugs", it shall be signed by the pharmacist/ doctor in charge or the supervising pharmacist/doctor in case of holiday, and to be sealed by the requester (Form F6). A copy of the UAE ID for the pharmacist / doctor in charge. A
in case of holiday, and to be sealed by the requester (Form F6). A copy of the UAE ID for the pharmacist / doctor in charge. A copy of the UAE ID of the medical director. Fees payment receipt Previous approval in case of quota amendment The approval of the health authority if the license of the establishment is from the Dubai Healthcare City Authority or the Dubai Health Authority.
Application to Change the Name of a Pharmaceutical Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Fee to change facility name: AED 1,000 About the Service This service allows pharmaceutical facilities to apply for an amendment to the company's registered name. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. Submit the application, attach the required documents and pay the application fee. 2 The employee concerned will review and verify the application to make sure it is complete. 3 Once the application is approved, the customer must pay the required fee. 4 The application will be approved by the employee concerned and a letter will be issued to the Department of Economic Development from the Customer Happiness Center. 5 The license with the new name will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website.
5 The license with the new name will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website. Conditions & Requirements The facility's license must be valid Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Fee to change facility name: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies Warehouses Manufacturers of medicines and medical devices Marketing Offices Warehouses for re-export Resources MOHAP-Misiterial-Decree-1110-2016-about-the-Scientific-offices MoH_Ministerial_Decree_60-2013_regulating_Medical_Stores Pharmaceutial Licensing UserManual - Applicant Infographic - Application to Change the Name of a Pharmaceutical Facility - PDF 372KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main
Name of a Pharmaceutical Facility - PDF 372KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-020-027 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 1434 Number of Transactions 41 Notes None Required Documents Initial approval: Facility License Issued by MOHAP Establishment Request Letter Current trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development Final approval: Valid copy of Establishment Trade License with new name
Menu عربي Login Home Services Individual Individual Services (General) Citizen Services Patient Support Services Preventive Services for Individuals Healthcare Specialist Services Business Business Services (General) Pharmaceutical Enterprises Services Factories & Companies Services Private Healthcare Facilities Services Health Advertisements Services Government Medical researches and data Services Social Health Education Services Organ Donation Service Details Related Links E-services E-services Help Complaints Common Public Services Digital Participation Consultations Participate and suggest ideas Polls Participate and help us get better Surveys Participate and give your opinion Digital Participation Policy Do's and don'ts on our channel About Digital Participation Know about our Digital Participation Blogs The most important activities & projects Submit Suggestions Share your suggestions and creative ideas to improve the MoHAP services and work environment Submit Complaints and
Suggestions Share your suggestions and creative ideas to improve the MoHAP services and work environment Submit Complaints and Feedback Send your complaints or feedback regarding MoHAP services and employees Submit Inquiries Receive answers regarding the Ministry's responsibilities, activities, or service requests The National Customer Relation Management (NCRM) Proceed to the unified platform of the UAE to submit suggestions, inquiries, complaints, and compliments Social Media Usage Policy Customer Councils Related Links Social Media Usage Policy Media Hub News Photos Videos Events Blogs Media Kit Open Data MOHAP Open Data View & download our resources Health Research Bank Read our research articles and materials Statistics Dashboard Clinical manpower, beds & illness stats Open Data Policy Do's and don't about open data Request / Propose Data New request to provide data or suggestion Open Data API Open Data API Related Links Media Kit About Us About MOHAP Since the creation of the
provide data or suggestion Open Data API Open Data API Related Links Media Kit About Us About MOHAP Since the creation of the UAE’s MOHAP Strategy Our core values, mission and vision Organization Structure Minister Message Minister's message on Health Contact MOHAP Leadership Projects & Initiatives Legal References Awards Strategic Partnership Innovation Health Strategy Health Knowledge Management Strategy What’s New in MOHAP Customer Happiness Centers Youth Council Youth Council The UAE Government Charter Related Links Media Hub Contact Us More Awareness Center General Tips Calories Calculation Body Mass Index Delivery Date Calculation Health Guidelines during Hajj Gamification Improve your cognitive awareness COVID-19 Covid-19 Vaccine Covid-19 Updates COVID-19 Centers Locations Supportive Dosing Guide Exemption from COVID-19 Vaccine Related Links Surveys Polls Registered Medical Product Directory Log out Digital ParticipationAbout MohapServices Services Services for input text Input
Registered Medical Product Directory Log out Digital ParticipationAbout MohapServices Services Services for input text Input text result Relevant result for input text Search Digital ParticipationAbout MohapServices Home About Us Projects & Initiatives Mabrouk Ma Yak Published Monday, 10 January 2022 Share What is Mabrouk Ma Yak? Mabrouk Ma Yak is an integrated eService for newborn Emiratis. Under this eService, newborn Emiratis can get: a birth certificate  his/her name added in the family data his/her passport an Emirates Identity card thiqa (insurance) health card (optional). In addition, his/her name will be registered in the population register. Parents will have an option to apply for paternity and maternity leaves and child allowance to Federal Authority for Government Human Resources (applicable only for employees of the federal government). Pre-requisites for the service In order to get this service, The father must apply for it within 3 months from the date of the baby's
for the service In order to get this service, The father must apply for it within 3 months from the date of the baby's birth He must be a UAE National and his wife should be added to the family data He must have a verified account on UAE Pass The baby should have been born at one of the hospitals that provide the Mabrouk Ma Yak service (PDF, 1 MB) And, the following documents should have been submitted while opening a file in the hospital: Valid Emirates ID of both parents Family data Marriage certificate (only if the woman is delivering for the first time). Service steps Follow these steps to get the identification documents for a newborn Emirati: Inform the hospital that you wish to avail the Mabrouk Ma Yak service You will receive an SMS confirming completion of the procedure. The SMS will include a link to complete your request online Log in to the Mabrouk Ma Yak Service portal and fill in the newborn baby's name and upload his/her photo Apply for paternity and maternity leaves
Ma Yak Service portal and fill in the newborn baby's name and upload his/her photo Apply for paternity and maternity leaves and child allowance (this is optional and applicable only to employees of the federal government) Choose either ‘home delivery’ or ‘collect from service centre’ for receiving the document pay fees online you will receive an SMS after the documents are ready. Note: if you had chosen ‘collect from service centre’, then please visit General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners’ Affairs along with the original family data. If you had chosen ‘home delivery’, then the documents will be delivered at the home address mentioned while submitting the application. Entities participating in the service The service is provided as a consequence of cooperation among Federal Authority for Identity, Citizenship, Customs & Port Security, Ministry of Health and Prevention, Ministry of Finance, Telecommunications and Digital Government Regulatory Authority, Dubai Health Authority,
and Prevention, Ministry of Finance, Telecommunications and Digital Government Regulatory Authority, Dubai Health Authority, Emirates Post, Emirates Health Services, Federal Authority for Government Human Resources and other federal and local entities. Useful links: Mabrouk Ma Yak FAQs Mabrouk Ma Yak User Guide Related Initiatives 01/08/2024 UAE Legislation 15/07/2024 National Survey for Health and Nutrition 2024 13/06/2024 Zero Bureaucracy Programme Did you find the content useful ? Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience Yes No Thank you for your feedback. Help us improve MOHAP website Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience Thank you for your feedback. An error occurred during saving your comment. Please check entered info and submit again.
Issue/ Cancel Online Pharmacy Permit Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration One working days  View more Service fees Free About the Service This service enables the issuance/cancellation of online permit for pharmacies. Service Process 1 Login to the facility's account on MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS. 2 Select (Issue/Cancel), Fill out the data, attach the required documents, and submit the application. 3 An electronic notification of approval will be sent to the applicant. Conditions & Requirements The classification of the establishment should be 'pharmacy'. The establishment license should be valid. The pharmacist-in-charge should have a valid license. FAQ’s Is this service available to all pharmacies? The service is available only to pharmacies licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention in Sharjah and the Northern Emirates Service completion duration One working days  Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae
Emirates Service completion duration One working days  Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 8011111  Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Pharmacies licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention Resources Pharmaceutical Licensing User Manual Resolution 90 2021 Medical Products Pharmacy Profession and Pharmaceutical Establishments - Available in Arabic Electronic Pharmacy guidelines 2017 - Available in Arabic Infographic - Issue:Cancel Online Pharmacy Permit.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licensing and Registration Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This
to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes An electronic notification of approval will be sent to the applicant. Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents Trade license
Renewal of a License for a Healthcare Advertisement in a Medical or Commercial Directory Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 License for healthcare advertisement in a medical ... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for the renewal of a license for a healthcare advertisement in a medical or commercial directory, whether printed or digital. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the
and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fee online or through a Customer Happiness Center. 7 The customer shall print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material. Documentation must be provided for each product included in the licensed advertisement. Advertisements in languages other than Arabic or English must be legally translated into Arabic or English. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group
to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 License for healthcare advertisement in a medical or commercial directory: AED 1,000 Kindly refer to the schedule of fees for further details Service channels MOHAP Website:
or commercial directory: AED 1,000 Kindly refer to the schedule of fees for further details Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service Centers Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic -
- Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic - Renewal of a License for a Healthcare Advertisement in a Medical or Commercial Directory - PDF 362KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-029-029 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 42 Notes None Required Documents Valid licences of service provider Valid registration or classification certificates for any products or pharmaceuticals mentioned in the advertisement (if any) Additional documents may be requested depending on the format of the advertisement (such as design, text, images or storyboard)
Changing the name of private health facilities Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 2 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED100 Fee to change the name of a medical facility: AED... About the Service This service allows changes to the names of licensed health facilities, including public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit the application, pay application fee and provide the new name in the e-system. 3 Attach the documents, complete the required information, and pay the fee. 4 Once the application is approved, the license will be issued under the new name through the e-system and sent via email. It can also be downloaded from the
the license will be issued under the new name through the e-system and sent via email. It can also be downloaded from the website. Conditions & Requirements The facility must have been open and practicing its commercial activity with a valid license for longer than 6 months. Service completion duration 2 working days Service fees Application fee: AED100 Fee to change the name of a medical facility: AED1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Infographic - Changing the name of private health facilities - PDF 413KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment
- PDF 413KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-044 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Departments of Economic Development: Issue Trade License Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents Copy of the facility's license issued by MOHAP Letter from the UAE citizen owner requesting the name change Trade License issued by the Department of Economic Development
Adding a New Specialty to Private Health Facilities Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 2 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Medical Centers: About the Service This service allows medical, diagnostic and rehabilitation facilities to add new specialties to their licenses. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit the application online and pay application fee. 3 Submit the application online and pay application fee. 4 Application will be approved and a notice of acceptance will be issued. Conditions & Requirements The facility must have been open and commercially operating with a valid license for longer than 6 months. Service completion duration 2 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Medical Centers: Additional Specialty fees: AED 6,000 each, up to a maximum payment for 3 specialties, plus application fees of AED 100. Subsequent additional specialties
AED 6,000 each, up to a maximum payment for 3 specialties, plus application fees of AED 100. Subsequent additional specialties (4th onwards) will incur a fees of only AED 100 each. Rehabilitation Centers: Additional Specialty fees: AED 5,000 each, up to a maximum payment for 3 specialties, plus application fees of AED 100. Subsequent additional specialties (4th onwards) will incur a fees of only AED 100 each. Diagnostic Centers: Additional Specialty fees: AED 6,000 each, up to a maximum payment for 3 specialties, plus application fees of AED 100. Subsequent additional specialties (4th onwards) will incur a fees of only AED 100 each. Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities
80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources Infographic - Adding a New Specialty to Private Health Facilities - PDF 441KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-049 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 79 Notes None  Required Documents A letter addressed 'To Whom It May Concern' from the owner requesting to add new specialty List of doctors, technicians and nurses licensed under the facility
Renewal of a License to Practice as a Doctor Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Instant Renewal View more Service fees Private sector: Semi govermnent: About the Service This service allows medical facilities (private, government and semi government) to apply for Licenses renewal for employees, including physicians and dentists of various specialties and levels. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Fill in the information, attach the required documents, and submit the application. 3 If the requirements are met, the application will be approved and the customer will pay the service fees. 4 The license will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website and application. Conditions & Requirements A medical report is required if the doctor is 60 years and above. Continuous Medical Education in the same licensing field. Service completion duration Instant
the doctor is 60 years and above. Continuous Medical Education in the same licensing field. Service completion duration Instant Renewal Service fees Private sector: Application fees: 100 AED License renewal fees for Doctors: 3,000 AED Semi govermnent: Application fees: 100 AED for all applications types Government sector: Free for all applications types Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Call Center: 80011111 Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Private health facilities/government/ semi government (General practitioners, Dentists, Specialist Physicians, Consultant physicians) Resources User Manual - Renewal of a License to Practice as a Doctor - PDF 1740KB Infographic - Renewal of a License to Practice as a Doctor - PDF 384KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions
384KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-010-021 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Related Services Licensing of a doctor Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 4226 Number of Transactions 5572 Notes None Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents Recent Continuous Medical Education (CME) (40) Valid Insurance Against Medical Faults Valid Labor Card Valid National Identity Card Valid Visa Copy Recent Medical Report (for those who are aged above 60)
Registration of a Medical Equipment Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 45 working days View more Service fees Application: 100 AED Registration of a medical device: 5,000 AED About the Service This services allows the registration of medical equipment with the purpose of importing and trading them in UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request through the electronic service and complete the payment to meet all conditions 3 The competent technical committees will deliberate the registration of products and recommendations shall be submitted to the competent ministerial committee 4 Letters shall be addressed to the concerned companies stating the committee's decisions 5 The customer shall follow up with the Analysis Section of at the Drug Department 6 The company should complete the requirements and submit them via electronic service 7 The relevant technical and ministerial committees will re-deliberate
the requirements and submit them via electronic service 7 The relevant technical and ministerial committees will re-deliberate the registration of products that have been deferred in advance as soon as companies complete the requirements 8 The certificates of registration of products that have been approved for registration will be issued, provided all conditions and requirements are fulfilled. Registration certificates are valid for five years effective the date of committee's approval 9 The pharmaceutical certificates (for locally manufactured pharmaceutical products) will be issued and be valid for one year effective the date of issuance Conditions & Requirements Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. The marketing office or medical warehouse must be licensed by the Ministry of Health and have a valid license. FAQ’s What are the fees for the registration of a medical device? Application: AED100. Registration
and have a valid license. FAQ’s What are the fees for the registration of a medical device? Application: AED100. Registration of a medical device: AED5,000. What is the average length of time for the registration of a medical device? 45 working days. What channels are available to apply for the registration of a medical device? MOHAP Website and Smart Application. What are the conditions and requirements for obtaining a medical device? Marketing Authorization Holder companies and product manufacturing sites must be registered in MOHAP prior to the registration of their products. The applicant must be a medical warehouse or marketing office licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention and must hold a valid license. Service completion duration 45 working days Service fees Application: 100 AED Registration of a medical device: 5,000 AED Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohab Website MOHAP Smart Application Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae
Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohab Website MOHAP Smart Application Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing offices Resources Pricing Rules Drug Registration - External User Manual Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Infographic - Registration of a Medical Equipment - PDF 420KB.pdf Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-013-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked with other services Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages Number of Users 83 Number of Transactions 468 Notes Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products.
468 Notes Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. Required Documents Filling out the application form of registration completely and to be signed and stamped by company. A copy of valid registration certificate of the factory. A valid certificate of free sale/ registration issued by the competent authorities in the country of origin certified by the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates. A copy of the product agency contract signed between the company and the agent. Certificate of quality conformity/ marketing authorization, such as EC (European Conformity), 510 K (Premarket Notification), PMA (Parts Manufacturer Approval) as per the classification of the equipment, i.e. Class I, II, III, IV. Post-marketing monitoring requirements. Product's information, including: description, formulation, types, sizes, models, accessories, usages, side effects, contradictions, warnings, precautions, usage guidelines, photos of
types, sizes, models, accessories, usages, side effects, contradictions, warnings, precautions, usage guidelines, photos of packaging covers, brochures and usage manuals. Provide laboratory requirements and analysis, as well as pricing for certain medical equipment. Providing one samples, certificate of analysis (as per equipment type), external and internal covers and brochures. Acknowledgement of the company that equipment conforms to the specifications as per the Medical Equipment Manual (EC(European Conformity)-Declaration of Conformity) Safety and efficacy data (for products classified as Class III, IV). Special requirements: Certificate of conformity to equipment manufactured from animal products.
Renewal of Registration of Medical Equipment Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 15 working days View more Service fees Application: 100 AED Renewal of the registration of a medical device: 2... About the Service This service allows the renewal of registration of medical equipment with the purpose of importing and trading them in UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS. 2 Submit the request online and complete the payment to meet all conditions. 3 The competent technical committees will deliberate the registration of products and recommendations shall be submitted to the competent ministerial committee. 4 Letters are to be addressed to the concerned companies stating the committee's decisions. 5 The customer will follow up with the Analysis Section of at the Drug Department. 6 The company should complete the requirements and submit them online. 7 The relevant technical and ministerial committees will re-deliberate the
complete the requirements and submit them online. 7 The relevant technical and ministerial committees will re-deliberate the registration of products that have been deferred in advance as soon as companies complete the requirements. 8 The certificates of registration of products that have been approved for registration will be issued, provided all the conditions and requirements are met. Registration certificates are valid for five years effective the date of last expiry date of the previous certificate. 9 The pharmaceutical certificates (for locally manufactured pharmaceutical products) will be issued and be valid for one year effective the date of issuance. Conditions & Requirements Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by the Ministry of Health and have a valid license Service completion duration 15 working days Service fees Application: 100 AED Renewal of the
of Health and have a valid license Service completion duration 15 working days Service fees Application: 100 AED Renewal of the registration of a medical device: 2,500 AED Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae - MOHAP Smart App Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Resources Infographic - Renewal of Registration of Medical Equipment - PDF 417KB Drug Registration - External User Manual Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Pricing Rules Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-013-013 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Number of Transactions 181 Notes Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be
to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Number of Transactions 181 Notes Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. Required Documents The application form of renewing the registration of medical equipment and reagents The original registration certificate of the product issued previously by the Drug Control Department A valid manufacturing certificate of the factory issued by MOHAP Certificate of free sale/ registration issued by the competent authorities in the country of origin A copy of all minor changes certificates issued by the Drug Control Department and certificates of quality conformity/ marketing authorization, such as EC, 510 (K), PMA as per the classification of the equipment, i.e. Class I, II, III, IV Post-marketing monitoring requirements Providing 3 samples (as per equipment type), certificate of analysis (as per equipment type), external and internal covers and brochures Acknowledgment of the company
certificate of analysis (as per equipment type), external and internal covers and brochures Acknowledgment of the company that equipment conforms to the specifications as per the Medical Equipment Manual (EC-Declaration of Conformity)
Issue of a Certificate of a Pharmaceutical Product for Export Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Certificate for an export pharmaceutical product: ... About the Service This service enables pharmaceutical manufacturers inside the UAE to apply for a pharmaceutical product certificate for the purpose of exporting such products. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request through the electronic service and complete the payment to meet all conditions 3 If documents are ok, CPP will be issued online Conditions & Requirements Certificates of pharmaceutical Products (for locally manufactured pharmaceutical products) valid for one year effective the date of issuance, provided that the validity period of registration of the product should not exceed (five years). Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Certificate for an export pharmaceutical product: 1000 AED
years). Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Certificate for an export pharmaceutical product: 1000 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Resources CPP - External User Manual Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Infographic_Issue of a Certificate of a Pharmaceutical Product for Export Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-017-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 682 Required Documents Product composition certificate, including the active and inactive substances and their quantities, signed and stamped by the authorized person. Insert leaflet of the product, approved by
substances and their quantities, signed and stamped by the authorized person. Insert leaflet of the product, approved by the Ministry of Health and Prevention, and signed and stamped by the authorized person.
Registration of A Manufacturer of Medical Products Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 2 to 4 weeks View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a medical products manufacturer: A... About the Service This service allows the registration of the manufacturing sites of medical products (human) in UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request online and complete the payment to meet all conditions 3 The concerned officer will receive the file, ensure the availability of all documents, and refer the file to the Technical Committee for the registration of human medicines 4 The registration of the manufacturing site will be deliberated by the concerned technical committee and the recommendations shall be submitted with conditional approval (postpone approval until completion of requirements) and applications will be referred to the Higher Committee for Human Medicines Registration 5 The
completion of requirements) and applications will be referred to the Higher Committee for Human Medicines Registration 5 The registration of the manufacturing site will be deliberated by the Higher Committee for final decision (conditional approval, postpone approval until completion of requirements) 6 Communication shall be made with the company and completion of all requirements be requested 7 The registration certificate of the manufacturing site will be issued after the company fulfills the conditions and requirements of the Higher Committee for Human Medicines Registration 8 The issual of the registration certificate of the manufacturing site will be approved Conditions & Requirements The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by MOHAP and must have a valid license. Renewal of registration must be done every 5 years. Renewal of registration will be in the same fees and procedures. Manufacturing Site Should have a Marketing Authorization Holder (Legal Manufacturer) & it
be in the same fees and procedures. Manufacturing Site Should have a Marketing Authorization Holder (Legal Manufacturer) & it should be registered on Ministry Of Health & Prevention. Required documents for MAH registration: The application form (part 1) duly filled, signed and stamped by the responsible person in the company. A legalized letter issued by the company on its original letterhead, signed and stamped by the responsible person in the company, authorizing a person or a local establishment to submit the registration file on its behalf, to the Drug Control Department. Attested true by UAE Embassy. This person / the local establishment will be responsible to receive the registration certificate from the Drug Department. Legalized company license issued by the competent authority in its country origin, showing all its licensed activities there. (attested true by UAE Embassy). Company Profile. List of associated manufacturing facilities, if any. List of all products dealing with,
true by UAE Embassy). Company Profile. List of associated manufacturing facilities, if any. List of all products dealing with, in the country of origin. Evidence of the company's presence in other countries, if available. For registration of marketing authorization holder (MAH) in UAE MOHAP, applicant can submit the documents with the site registration application OR by submitting the required documents through the courier to drug department of ministry of health & prevention. Service completion duration 2 to 4 weeks Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a medical products manufacturer: AED 10,000 Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmaceutical drug stores Local manufacturers Resources Infographic - Registration of A Manufacturer of Medical Products - PDF 376KB Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Site Registration -
Registration of A Manufacturer of Medical Products - PDF 376KB Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Site Registration - External User Manual Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-016-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 308 Required Documents Required Documents For Registering A (Conventional/GSL/Herbal) Manufacturer: A legalized letter issued by the company on its original letterhead, signed and stamped by the responsible person in the company, authorizing a person or a local establishment to submit the registration file on its behalf, to the Drug Control Department. Attested true by UAE Embassy. This person / the local establishment will be responsible to receive the registration certificate from the Drug Department. Legalized Current GMP Certificate Issued By The Competent Authority
the registration certificate from the Drug Department. Legalized Current GMP Certificate Issued By The Competent Authority In Country Of origin. (Attested True By The UAE Embassy In country of origin). Legalized Valid Manufacturing License Issued By The Competent Authority In Country Of Origin. (Attested True By the UAE Embassy In country of origin). List of medicines manufactured at the manufacturing site. Site Master File. Certified copies of certificates of registration/ certificates of good manufacturing practice of the manufacturing site in other countries. Required Documents For Registering A medical device manufacturing site: A Notarized letter issued by the company on its original letterhead, signed and stamped by the responsible person in the company, authorizing a person or a local establishment to submit the registration files on their behalf, to the Drug Department of ministry of health and prevention. Valid legalized ISO 13485 certificate issued by the competent authority
Drug Department of ministry of health and prevention. Valid legalized ISO 13485 certificate issued by the competent authority in country of origin. Require Legalized valid Business licenses / Manufacturing License issued by the competent authority in country of origin (Attested true by the UAE Embassy In country of origin). List of the products manufactured and/or assembled by the site. Detailed Company profile.
Registration of Pharmaceutical Product for General Sale Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 45 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a pharmaceutical product for gener... About the Service This service enables the customers to submit applications to register simple pharmaceutical products with limited medicinal usage, which cannot be considered medicines and are intended for general sale. These include products such as dietary supplements,medical cosmetics and medical disinfectants. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request through the electronic service and complete the payment to meet all conditions 3 The competent technical committees will deliberate the registration of products and recommendations will be submitted to the competent ministerial committee 4 Declarations shall be addressed to the concerned companies stating the committee's decisions via the e- system 5
committee 4 Declarations shall be addressed to the concerned companies stating the committee's decisions via the e- system 5 The customer will follow up with the Pharmacological Analysis Section of at the Drug Department 6 The company should complete the requirements and submit them online 7 The relevant technical and ministerial committees will re-deliberate the registration of products that have been deferred in advance as soon as companies complete the requirements 8 Issuing certificates of registration of products that have been approved for registration following fulfilling all conditions and requirements. Registration certificates are valid for five years effective the date of committee approval 9 Issuing pharmaceutical certificates (for locally manufactured pharmaceutical products) valid for one year effective the date of issuance Conditions & Requirements Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. The
Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by the Ministry of Health and have a valid license. FAQ’s What are the fees for the registration of a pharmaceutical product for general sale? Application: AED100 Registration of a pharmaceutical product for general sale: AED5,000 What is the average length of time for the registration of a pharmaceutical product for general sale? 45 working days. What is the target group for a pharmaceutical product registration service with general sales? Drug warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing officers What are the conditions and requirements for obtaining a pharmaceutical product registration service with general sales? Marketing Authorization Holder companies and product manufacturing sites must be registered in MOHAP prior to the registration of their products The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by
must be registered in MOHAP prior to the registration of their products The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention and must hold a valid license Service completion duration 45 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a pharmaceutical product for general sale: AED 5,000 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohab Website MOHAP smart app Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing officers Resources Infographic - Registration of Pharmaceutical Product for General Sale - PDF 384KB Portal Manual_637716056042464487 Login User Manual_637716056042643318 Help Manual_637716056041058138 Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-011-000 Service Classfication
Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-011-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked with other services Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages Number of Users 43 Number of Transactions 336 Notes Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. Required Documents Certificate of pharmaceutical product in accordance with the WHO (World Health Organization) system or a certificate of free sale of the product issued by the competent authorities in the country of origin and certified by the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates. It should contain the following information: Product Brand Name: If the brand name required to be registered in UAE is different from the name in the country of origin, this shall be made clear in the certificate,
to be registered in UAE is different from the name in the country of origin, this shall be made clear in the certificate, besides stating the reason for that and making both names clear with an emphasis on their conformity in terms of formulation and other specifications The detailed formulation of the product contains active and inactive substances with their quantities and functions of inactive substances Name of the company entitled to marketing/ manufacturing/ manufacturing sites/ subcontract manufacturers along with their addresses One samples of the product. A valid registration certificate of the manufacturing company issued by MOHAP-UAE with intended production line. Halal certificate issued by certified authorities and organizations. A statement issued by the company confirming that the product to be registered is free of hormones, heavy metals, antibiotics, steroids, pig derivatives and any other natural or chemical substances that have a harmful impact on human beings
antibiotics, steroids, pig derivatives and any other natural or chemical substances that have a harmful impact on human beings biologically and behaviorally If the product contains animal derived substances, the animal type and the part extracted from it should be mentioned with the percentage of alcohol used "if any and why it is used" A copy of the certified contract signed between the marketing company and local agent indicating the products for which the agent will be responsible A certified certificate from the competent authorities of the country of origin stating that the materials used in manufacturing the product is free from mad cow disease and its causes (if the product contains substances classified as potential substances for transmitting the disease) (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE)/ Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies (TSE) free certificate) A copy of the outer and inner cover and the leaflet printed on letterhead paper stamped by the company and signed by
A copy of the outer and inner cover and the leaflet printed on letterhead paper stamped by the company and signed by the authorized person Detailed Composition Certificate (active & inactive ingredients with their quantities). Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC).
Renewal of the Registration of a Manufacturer of Medical Products Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 2 to 4 weeks View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of medical products manufacturer: AED... About the Service This service allows the renew of the registration of the manufacturing sites of medical products (human) registered in UAE MOHAP. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request online and complete the payment to meet all conditions 3 The concerned officer will receive the file, ensure the availability of all documents and refer it to the Technical Committee for the registration of human medicines 4 The registration of the manufacturing site will be deliberated by the concerned technical committee and the recommendations will be submitted with conditional approval (postpone approval until completion of requirements), and referred to the Higher Committee for Human Medicines Registration
(postpone approval until completion of requirements), and referred to the Higher Committee for Human Medicines Registration 5 The registration of the manufacturing site will be deliberated by the Higher Committee for final decision (conditional approval, postpone approval until completion of requirements) 6 Communication shall be made with the company and request the completion of all requirements 7 The registration certificate of the manufacturing site will be issued after the company fulfills the conditions and requirements of the Higher Committee for Human Medicines Registration 8 Approval shall be given for the registration certificate of the manufacturing site Conditions & Requirements The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by MOHAP and must have a valid license Renewal of registration must be done every 5 years Renewal of registration will be in the same fees and procedures FAQ’s What are the fees for renewing the registration of a medical products' manufacturer
be in the same fees and procedures FAQ’s What are the fees for renewing the registration of a medical products' manufacturer service? Application fees: AED100. Renew Registration of a medical products' manufacturer: AED10,000 What is the average length of time for renewing the registration of a medical products' manufacturer service? 2- 4 weeks What is the target group for the registration of a medical products' manufacturer service? Drug warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers What channels are available to apply for the registration of a medical products' manufacturer service? MOHAP Website and Smart Application Service completion duration 2 to 4 weeks Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of medical products manufacturer: AED 10,000 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart Application Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical Warehouse
smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical Warehouse Local Pharmaceutical factories Resources Infographic - Renewal of the Registration of a Manufacturer of Medical Products - PDF 377KB Required documents for each type of manufacturer Site Registration - External User Manual_637716326133683924 Portal Manual_637716326139465417 Login User Manual_637716326134465290 Help Manual_637716326134152646 Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-016-016 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Number of Users 44 Number of Transactions 269 Required Documents Documents for registering a (conventional medicines/biological medicines/GSL products/natural source medicines) manufacturer: - A legalized letter issued by the company on its original letterhead, signed and
source medicines) manufacturer: - A legalized letter issued by the company on its original letterhead, signed and stamped by the responsible person in the company, authorizing a person or a local establishment to submit the registration file on its behalf, to the Drug Control Department, attested true by UAE Embassy. (This person/the local establishment will be responsible to receive the registration certificate from the Drug Department) - Legalized current GMP certificate issued by the competent authority in the country of origin. (Attested true by the UAE Embassy in the country of origin) - Legalized valid manufacturing license issued by the competent authority in the country of origin. (Attested true by the UAE Embassy in the country of origin) - List of medicines manufactured at the manufacturing site - Site master file - Certified copies of certificates of registration/certificates of good manufacturing practice of the manufacturing site in other countries. Documents for
of registration/certificates of good manufacturing practice of the manufacturing site in other countries. Documents for registering a medical device manufacturing site: - A notarized letter issued by the company on its original letterhead, signed and stamped by the responsible person in the company, authorizing a person or a local establishment to submit the registration files on their behalf, to the Drug Department of the Ministry of Health and Prevention - Valid legalized ISO 13485 certificate issued by the competent authority in country of origin - Required legalized valid business licenses/manufacturing license issued by the competent authority in the country of origin (attested true by the UAE Embassy in the country of origin) - List of the products manufactured and/or assembled by the site - Detailed company profile
Menu عربي Login Home Services Individual Individual Services (General) Citizen Services Patient Support Services Preventive Services for Individuals Healthcare Specialist Services Business Business Services (General) Pharmaceutical Enterprises Services Factories & Companies Services Private Healthcare Facilities Services Health Advertisements Services Government Medical researches and data Services Social Health Education Services Organ Donation Service Details Related Links E-services E-services Help Complaints Common Public Services Digital Participation Consultations Participate and suggest ideas Polls Participate and help us get better Surveys Participate and give your opinion Digital Participation Policy Do's and don'ts on our channel About Digital Participation Know about our Digital Participation Blogs The most important activities & projects Submit Suggestions Share your suggestions and creative ideas to improve the MoHAP services and work environment Submit Complaints and
Suggestions Share your suggestions and creative ideas to improve the MoHAP services and work environment Submit Complaints and Feedback Send your complaints or feedback regarding MoHAP services and employees Submit Inquiries Receive answers regarding the Ministry's responsibilities, activities, or service requests The National Customer Relation Management (NCRM) Proceed to the unified platform of the UAE to submit suggestions, inquiries, complaints, and compliments Social Media Usage Policy Customer Councils Related Links Social Media Usage Policy Media Hub News Photos Videos Events Blogs Media Kit Open Data MOHAP Open Data View & download our resources Health Research Bank Read our research articles and materials Statistics Dashboard Clinical manpower, beds & illness stats Open Data Policy Do's and don't about open data Request / Propose Data New request to provide data or suggestion Open Data API Open Data API Related Links Media Kit About Us About MOHAP Since the creation of the
provide data or suggestion Open Data API Open Data API Related Links Media Kit About Us About MOHAP Since the creation of the UAE’s MOHAP Strategy Our core values, mission and vision Organization Structure Minister Message Minister's message on Health Contact MOHAP Leadership Projects & Initiatives Legal References Awards Strategic Partnership Innovation Health Strategy Health Knowledge Management Strategy What’s New in MOHAP Customer Happiness Centers Youth Council Youth Council The UAE Government Charter Related Links Media Hub Contact Us More Awareness Center General Tips Calories Calculation Body Mass Index Delivery Date Calculation Health Guidelines during Hajj Gamification Improve your cognitive awareness COVID-19 Covid-19 Vaccine Covid-19 Updates COVID-19 Centers Locations Supportive Dosing Guide Exemption from COVID-19 Vaccine Related Links Surveys Polls Registered Medical Product Directory Log out Digital ParticipationAbout MohapServices Services Services for input text Input
Registered Medical Product Directory Log out Digital ParticipationAbout MohapServices Services Services for input text Input text result Relevant result for input text Search Digital ParticipationAbout MohapServices Home About Us Projects & Initiatives Ajr Wa Aafya Published Thursday, 10 November 2022 Share What is Ajr Wa Aafya? Ajr Wa Aafya is a Service Bundle that allows employees of Federal government entities to obtain approval and automatically apply for sick leaves into the Human Resources Management Information System "Bayanati".   How to apply the service package Request the service through MOHAP website  by registering in the electronic system for attesting sick leaves and medical reports Submit the application and pay the prescribed fee electronically Obtaining a certified  sick leave  The sick leave will be entered and registered automatically in the "Bayanati" system once it is issued and certified by the E- System Entities participating in the service Minisrty of Health
the "Bayanati" system once it is issued and certified by the E- System Entities participating in the service Minisrty of Health and Prevention (MOHAP) The Federal Authority for Govermental Human Resources (FAHR) Bundle Services Attestation of sick leaves and medical reports Self Service - Leaves - Leave Request Service Fees 50 AED Service Link  Ajr Wa Aafya Related Initiatives 01/08/2024 UAE Legislation 15/07/2024 National Survey for Health and Nutrition 2024 13/06/2024 Zero Bureaucracy Programme Did you find the content useful ? Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience Yes No Thank you for your feedback. Help us improve MOHAP website Give us your feedback so we can improve your experience Thank you for your feedback. An error occurred during saving your comment. Please check entered info and submit again.
Renewal of a License to Practice as a Pharmacist Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 License renewal: AED 1,000 About the Service This service allows medical and pharmaceutical facilities to apply for the renewal of licenses for employees in the pharmacy profession, including first or second official pharmacists and assistant pharmacists. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Provide the required information and documents, pay the fee and submit the request as per the type of license. 3 If the requirements are met, the application will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 4 The ministry will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the renewal will be approved. 5 The license will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also
conditions are met, the renewal will be approved. 5 The license will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded from the website and smart app. Conditions & Requirements A medical fitness certificate from EHS is required for those who are 60 years and above. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 License renewal: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Support Call Center: 80011111 Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical and pharmaceutical facilities (in-charge pharmacist, second pharmacist, assistant pharmacist). Resources PQR V02_- PDF 1670KB User Manual - Renewal of a License to Practice as a Pharmacist - PDF 1975KB Infographic - Renewal of a License to Practice as a Pharmacist - PDF 361KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service
to Practice as a Pharmacist - PDF 361KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-009-014 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services. Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles. Number of Users 3069 Number of Transactions 4800 Notes None Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents List of continuous medical education indicating required number of hours (20 hours for the in-charge pharmacist and second pharmacist, 10 hours for assistant pharmacist). List of controlled drugs (for official pharmacist). UAE ID. A no objection letter. A copy of passport. A copy of residency/visa. A copy of medical malpractice insurance.
Transfer of a Doctor's License Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees AED 100 About the Service This service allows medical facilities to apply for the transfer of a doctor's license from one facility to another. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must access the website through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application and if it meets the requirements, the application will be approved and then sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fees through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned
after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license issuance, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements The license of the doctor to be transferred must be valid Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email:
info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience General Practitioner Dentist Specialist Physician Consultant Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Infographic - Transfer of a Doctor_s License - PDF 400KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-010-020 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 795 Number of Transactions 372 Notes None  Required Documents A letter from the facility requesting the transfer of the physician's license The contract of employment A copy of license or ID card No objection letter The facility's
transfer of the physician's license The contract of employment A copy of license or ID card No objection letter The facility's plan
License for Healthcare Advertisement for a Non-Healthcare Institution Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Fees for licensing healthcare advertisements depen... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for a license for a healthcare advertisement for a non-healthcare facility. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the service fee online. 7 The customer shall print the ad
documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the service fee online. 7 The customer shall print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material. Documentation must be provided for each product included in the licensed advertisement. Advertisements in languages other than Arabic or English must be legally translated into Arabic or English. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice in the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a
group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Fees for licensing healthcare advertisements depend on the category of the advertising facility's activity (clinic, healthcare center, hospital etc.) and the type of advertisement (print, audio, audiovisual) Kindly refer to the attached schedule of fees Service channels MOHAP Website:
type of advertisement (print, audio, audiovisual) Kindly refer to the attached schedule of fees Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae    Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Conditions of license cencellation Fees for healthcare advertising services General guidlines for applicants for healthcare advertising licenses Guidlines for conforming the licensing - renewal- amendment of healthcare advertisments Registration controls - chemicals or products derived from natural sources Registration controls - medical and healthcare institutions, services, doctors and others practitioners of healthcare professions Registration controls - medical and healthcare intitutions outside the UAE and medical tourism Registration
professions Registration controls - medical and healthcare intitutions outside the UAE and medical tourism Registration controls - scientific activities Registration controls diagnostic healthcare campaigns and free treatment Registration controls for healthcare education campaigns Registration controls for medical and healthcare equipment and material infographic - License for Healthcare Advertisement for a Non-Healthcare Institution - PDF 363KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-036-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents Valid licenses of service providers/facility Valid registration or classification certificates of any products or pharmaceuticals mentioned in the
providers/facility Valid registration or classification certificates of any products or pharmaceuticals mentioned in the advertisement Additional documents may be requested depending on the format of the advertising material (such as design, text, image or storyboard)
Assessment of Medical Products for Pharmacological Research and Clinical Studies of Drugs Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 90 calendar days View more Service fees 5000 AED About the Service This service enables clients to apply for the receipt, assessment and approval of medical products for medical research and clinical studies of drugs, in accordance with the 'Guidelines for Conducting Clinical Trials of Medicines and Medical Devices According to Good Clinical Practices' of 2017. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The application must be submitted with the required documents as per Article 47 of 'Guidelines for Conducting Clinical Trials with Investigational Products and Medical Devices 2017'. 3 The documents and the application will be reviewed by the officer in charge for initial approval 4 The Regulatory Committee at the Ministry of Health and Prevention will assess the application 5 An approval letter will be
4 The Regulatory Committee at the Ministry of Health and Prevention will assess the application 5 An approval letter will be issued to conduct the clinical trial Conditions & Requirements The approval of the Regulatory Committee at the Ministry of Health and Prevention (RCMOHP) is required before clinical trials can commence. Service completion duration 90 calendar days Service fees 5000 AED Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Doctors Medical store Marketing Offices Local Manufactures Government hospitals Private hospitals Pharmaceutical Companies Government Universities Private Universities CRO (Contract research Organizations) Resources Guidelines for Conducting Clinical Trials with Investigational Products and Medical Devices 2017 Infographic - Assessment of Medical Products for Pharmacological Research and Clinical Studies
and Medical Devices 2017 Infographic - Assessment of Medical Products for Pharmacological Research and Clinical Studies of Drugs PDF 370KB Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-010-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 76 Required Documents Before the Clinical Trial Commences, The approval of Regulatory Committee at the Ministry of Health and Prevention (RCMOHP) is essential. New Submission: 1. Administrative documentation: a. Payment receipts. b. Cover Letter: The applicant shall submit as an attachment a signed cover letter. The cover letter should contain, the protocol number and title and a full list of all essential documents accompanied the proposed clinical trial. c. List of Regulatory Authorities and Ethics Committees apart from UAE ones, to which the application has been submitted and
c. List of Regulatory Authorities and Ethics Committees apart from UAE ones, to which the application has been submitted and information about their decisions. d. List of all study centers and investigators planned to participate in the UAE. e. Power of Attorney or Agreement authorizing the applicant of the submission on behalf of the sponsor, in cases where the applicant is not the sponsor of the trial. f. Evidence of registration of the clinical trial on the ClinicalTrials.gov website. g. Certified copy of the CRO license granted by the MOHAP. 2. Information about subjects: a. Information for the patient/ subject and Informed Consent Form (in English; in Arabic and any other language that will be used). b. Description of the procedures for obtaining informed consent from a legal representative, where applicable. c. Any other information that will be used for subject enrollment and/ or presented to patients before or during the course of a study (in English and in Arabic).
be used for subject enrollment and/ or presented to patients before or during the course of a study (in English and in Arabic). Project-specific documents for the trial subjects could be any of the following: i. Patient diary. ii. Patient card. iii. Adverse Events diary. iv. Scales and Questionnaires (including Quality of Life questionnaires). v. Calendar(s). vi. Patient advertisement. vii. Additional trial information given in writing & / or multimedia technology to the subject. viii. Pictures of any materials intended to be given to the patient. 3. Documentation concerning the trial protocol: a. Study Protocol and all current amendments, developed in accordance with ICH-GCP requirements. b. Peer review of the scientific value of the trial, where available. c. Protocol pages signed by the sponsor and by the Investigator from each study site participating in the trial. d. Case Report form. 4. Documentation about the medicinal product tested: a. Investigator’s brochure (issued not
in the trial. d. Case Report form. 4. Documentation about the medicinal product tested: a. Investigator’s brochure (issued not later than one year before application submission). b. Summary of Product Characteristics, when applicable. c. Outline/ summary of all currently active clinical trials with the investigated product. 5. Documentation about the technical requirements and the staff: a. Description of the equipment and/ or the technical requirements necessary to perform the Protocol procedures. b. Certificates for external quality assessments (for the local laboratories) or Certificate for successful accreditation procedure (for the Central laboratories). Those documents are submitted for each laboratory that will be participating in the study procedures. c. CV and/ or other documents confirming the qualification, experience and training of study staff members (Investigator and Sub-Investigators). d. GCP training certificates of all study staff members. e. Financial Disclosure of
(Investigator and Sub-Investigators). d. GCP training certificates of all study staff members. e. Financial Disclosure of Principal Investigator. f. Confidentiality agreement of Principal Investigator. g. Documents, confirming the Accreditation of the Institution. 6. Data about funding and the administrative organization of trials: a. Insurance covering the liability of the sponsor and the Principal investigator(s) in case of property or non-property damages caused to the subjects related to their participation in the trial. b. Provision for compensation or a sample agreement between Sponsor and study subjects, when such compensation is considered. c. Sample Agreement between Sponsor, Institution and investigator, defining terms and conditions of conducting the clinical trial. d. Written approval Statement by the Director of the Institution regarding permission for conducting the study (if applicable). e. Information about a clinical trial finance resource in case the Sponsor is a
for conducting the study (if applicable). e. Information about a clinical trial finance resource in case the Sponsor is a not-profit organization. f. Pre site assessment report signed by the sponsor or its representative. 7. Additional documents: a. Investigational Product Dossier (IPD). b. Statement from the manufacturer, in all cases when the investigational product has a market authorization. c. Copy of the manufacturing authorization for medicinal products that are in the process of research and development, if the investigational product does not have a marketing authorization. d. Document to certify the conformity of the manufacturing conditions of the active substances of biological origin, control and storage standards to be equivalent to the requirements of the GMP for medicinal products in a process of research and development. e. Results/ reports from viral safety studies, where applicable. f. Examples of drug labels in English & Arabic, according to the requirements to the
viral safety studies, where applicable. f. Examples of drug labels in English & Arabic, according to the requirements to the information on the packaging of medicinal products used in clinical trials. RE- SUBMISSION (substantial Amendment): Cover Letter. Application form. Summary of the proposed amendment. List of modified documents with their effective dates and version numbers. Pages from the amended documents according to Appendix 02 (Initial submission) with previous and new wording. Comments of any novel aspect of the amendment (if any).
Approve Emergency Drugs and Psychotropic Materials Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration One working day View more Service fees Free About the Service Submitting a request to approve the transfer of narcotic drugs, psychotropics, and semi controlled medication between private and governmental health facilities for emergency cases. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit an application through the electronic service to obtain approval. Attach the required documents 3 The application will be reviewed by the competent employee at the Ministry of Health and Prevention 4 Customers can track the application form through their account 5 The approval is issued and sent to the customer 6 In case any additional documents are required, the client can add the same for endorsement Conditions & Requirements The list must include drugs registered or imported legally in the UAE. FAQ’s How can I apply for the Emergency Drugs and
The list must include drugs registered or imported legally in the UAE. FAQ’s How can I apply for the Emergency Drugs and Psychotropic service? Through the MOHAP website by using the health facility's account. Service completion duration One working day Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohab Website MOHAP Smart Application Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Private and government hospitals and one day surgery centers Resources Login User Manual Infographic_Approve Emergency Drugs and Psychotropic Materials for Hospitals Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-001-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked with other services Service Bundle Obtaining the
Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked with other services Service Bundle Obtaining the service is not linked with any bundle Number of Users 57 Number of Transactions 176 Notes This service is limited to emergency drugs and psychotropic registered or legally imported in UAE. Required Documents Official letter from the director of the health facility to the drug department justifying the medication transfer and specifying the required quantities. Patient's name, prescription and medical report. The establishment's valid license, issued by the licensing authority (Dubai Health Authority /Abu Dhabi Health Authority/Ministry of Climate Change and Environment). Doctor's/pharmacist's valid license. NOC from the licensing authority. Import permit from the transferring health facility.
Re-licensing of Licenses for Nurses and Medical Professionals Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 License to practice nursing, medicine or alternati... About the Service This service allows medical facilities to apply for the re-licensing of nurses and medical professionals. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must access the website through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application and if it meets the requirements, the application will be approved and then sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fees through the website, after which the application will be
for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fees through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license issuance, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements A certificate of functional fitness from the Department of Preventive Medicine is required if the applicant is aged 60 or older. FAQ’s How to obtain a re-licensing service for technicians and nursing professionals?
if the applicant is aged 60 or older. FAQ’s How to obtain a re-licensing service for technicians and nursing professionals? Through the account of the medical facility. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 License to practice nursing, medicine or alternative medicine: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical facilities Registered nurses Nursing assistants Registered midwives Assistant midwives Medical laboratory technicians Occupational therapists Opticians Audiologists Radiologists Anesthetists Geneticists Beauticians Emergency technicians Dialysis technicians Dental assistants Psychologists and social workers Other medical specialists Resources User Manual 27_Re-licensing of Licenses
Dental assistants Psychologists and social workers Other medical specialists Resources User Manual 27_Re-licensing of Licenses for Nurses and Medical Professionals Infographic - Re-licensing of Licenses for Nurses and Medical Professionals - PDF 377KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-017-021 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Ministry of Interior - Electronic Approval Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation - Issuance of a contract and job card MOHAP - Licensing of medical facilities Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 4138 Number of Transactions 1966 Notes None Required Documents Valid assessment certificate Certificates of recent experience from the employer Certificate of good conduct Letter of authorization request from the facility Job offer List of
experience from the employer Certificate of good conduct Letter of authorization request from the facility Job offer List of doctors and technicians licensed to work in the facility Copy of valid passport Recent passport-size photo with white background Copy of valid residence license Copy of valid Emirates ID card Employment contract Business card Insurance against medical errors
Licensing of a Visiting Foreign Doctor Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 License for visiting physician from outside the UA... About the Service This service allows medical facilities to apply for approval for a visiting foreign doctor to practice in the medical or dental profession for a limited period of time in a private health facility. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility and provide all the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application. If the application meets the requirements, it will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee
requirements, it will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all the conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements Visiting doctors may work in no more than two entities. Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 License for visiting
more than two entities. Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 License for visiting physician from outside the UAE: AED 3,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations  MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Health facilities, consultant doctors, specialist doctors Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Login User Manual Licensing of a Visiting Foreign Doctor Infographic - Licensing of a Visiting Foreign Doctor - PDF 364KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-005-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any
Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 2 Number of Transactions 2 Notes None Required Documents An application letter submitted by the facility to license the visiting doctor Job offer Copy of permanent license Plan of the facility approved by MOHAP engineers Certificate of experience Insurance against medical errors Facility license List of licensed doctors and technicians in the facility Letter of undertaking from the doctor with the number of licenses License of the doctor responsible for following up cases
Request for a Price List of Registered Medications Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 to 5 working days View more Service fees Price list of medicines and products in the UAE: 5... About the Service This service enables clients to apply for a price list of medicines registered in the UAE. Service Process 1 The client must sign in the MOHAP website. 2 The application for a price list of drugs must be submitted and the fee paid. 3 The employee concerned will provide the required list in the website. Conditions & Requirements To request the list through MOHAP official website, with paying the fees. Service completion duration 3 to 5 working days Service fees Price list of medicines and products in the UAE: 500 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations MOHAP Website Support drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing Offices Resources Request Price List of Registered
audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing Offices Resources Request Price List of Registered Medications Service_End_User_Manual_EN Infographic - Request for a Price List of Registered Medications - PDF 356KB Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-002-000 Service Classfication Informational Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 5 Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents Request the list through MOHAP official website. Submit Official letter of request for the list of medicines addressed to the Director of the Pharmaceutical Department on the company's letterhead. Payment through MOHAP official website.
Issue of Permit to Export Precursors Chemicals Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: 100 AED Export Permit fee: 500 AED About the Service This service enables industrial and commercial companies to obtain approval to export precursor chemicals abroad. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The applicant must submit a request and pay the fees through his account 3 The evaluation and review of documents will take approximately 3 to 5 working days. If the documents meet the MOHAP criteria, the request is sent to the Ministry of Interior Affairs, depending on the kind of substances to be exported 4 The applicants can track their request through their electronic account. The time to obtain security clearance from the Ministry of Interior Affairs will be unspecified since it depends on the kind of substances to be exported 5 Once the security clearance is issued by the
will be unspecified since it depends on the kind of substances to be exported 5 Once the security clearance is issued by the Ministry of Interior Affairs, the Ministry of Health & Prevention will process the request in 3 working days 6 The applicant can pay the fees for the export permission - AED 500 7 Once payment is made, the applicant can print the export permission through his account Conditions & Requirements MOHAP Registration Certificate and Trade License must be valid. Valid Permit and detailed information regarding the material required by the authorized and accredited person must be provided. Ministry of Interior's prior approval for chemical precursors must be obtained. Permit must be valid for at least two months from the date of issuance. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: 100 AED Export Permit fee: 500 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations MOHAP Website Support SmartServicesSupport@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E-
Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations MOHAP Website Support SmartServicesSupport@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Trading and manufacturing companies dealing with precursor chemicals Resources User Manual - Import and Export Services Infographic_Issue of Permit to Export Precursors Chemicals Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Clearance, Import and Export Permits Service Code 110-02-011-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Users 121 Number of Transactions 1679 Required Documents Valid Commercial/Industrial license for trading of precursor chemicals as per practice. Purchase order from the importer. Purchase invoice issued from country of origin. Packing list, including net weight and gross weight. MOHAP Registration Certificate for trading of precursor chemicals.
Re-licensing of a Doctor Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Re-licensing of a doctor: AED 3000 About the Service This service allows medical facilities to apply for the re-licensing of doctors, including those at various levels in the medical and dental professions. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application. If it meets the requirements, the application will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to
The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements The facility must have a registered nurse for every two doctors employed. A certificate of medical fitness from the Department of Preventive Medicine, if the doctor is 60 years or older. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees
Department of Preventive Medicine, if the doctor is 60 years or older. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Re-licensing of a doctor: AED 3000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Private health facilities, general practitioners, dentists, specialist physicians, consultant physicians Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Infographic - Re-licensing of a Doctor - PDF 372KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-010-019 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles
Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 10442 Number of Transactions 947 Notes None Required Documents Letter from the facility requesting the re-licensing of the doctor Doctor's contract of employment Copy of the doctor's valid license Assessment certificate Facility's plan Certificate of good conduct for the doctor Medical fitness certificate (if doctor is 60 years or older)
Renewal of Registration of a Pharmaceutical Product for General Sale Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 15 Working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Renewal of the registration of pharmaceutical prod... About the Service This service enables applications for the renewal of registrations of simple pharmaceutical products with limited medicinal usage, which cannot be considered medicines and are intended for general sale. These include products such as dietary supplements, medical cosmetics and medical disinfectants. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request online, complete the payment and meet all conditions 3 The registration renewal file will be examined and companies will receive a letter stating the specific requirements 4 The customer shall follow up with the Analysis Section of at the Drug Department 5 The company should complete the requirements and submit them online 6 The
with the Analysis Section of at the Drug Department 5 The company should complete the requirements and submit them online 6 The certificates of registration of products that have been approved for registration will be issued, provide all the conditions and requirements are met. Registration certificates are valid for five years effective from the last expiry date of the last registration certificate 7 The pharmaceutical certificates (for locally manufactured pharmaceutical products) will be issued, valid for one year effective the date of issuance Conditions & Requirements Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by the Ministry of Health and have a valid license. Service completion duration 15 Working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Renewal of the registration of pharmaceutical product for general sale: AED 2,500 Service channels MOHAP Website Service
100 Renewal of the registration of pharmaceutical product for general sale: AED 2,500 Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Resources Infographic - Registration of Pharmaceutical Product for General Sale - PDF 384KB Drug Registration - External User Manual Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Pricing Rules Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-011-011 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Number of Transactions 300 Notes Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. Required Documents Filling out the application form for renewal of registration of
before they could register their products. Required Documents Filling out the application form for renewal of registration of pharmaceutical products with general sale completely and to be signed and stamped by company. A copy of a valid certificate of a pharmaceutical/ free sale product. A valid manufacturing certificate of the factory issued by MOHAP. The original registration certificate issued by MOHAP. The original registration certificate of the product issued previously by the Drug Department. A new copy of the product registration certificate issued by the competent authorities in the country of origin certified by the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates. A valid registration certificate of manufacturing location issued by the Drug Control Department. A copy of all minor changes certificates issued by the Drug Department. The outer cover, the inner poster and the internal leaflet. Original 2 samples of the product used in UAE.
Registration of a Conventional Pharmaceutical Product Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 45 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a conventional pharmaceutical prod... About the Service This service enables clients to submit applications to register conventional, biological or other human pharmaceutical products for importation and trading within the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request online, meet all conditions and pay the required fees 3 Study the registration file and discuss the pricing of product with the concerned technical committee and then submit report to the concerned ministerial committee 4 Follow up shall be done online to complete the Stability, Bioequivalence (if required) & Pharmacovigilance section and Analysis through Quality Control Lab 5 Meet all the requirements and submit the file on the agreed date 6 The registration of products that
Quality Control Lab 5 Meet all the requirements and submit the file on the agreed date 6 The registration of products that have been previously delayed on completion of requirements shall be discussed by the relevant technical and ministerial committees 7 Price approval letter will be issued after committee approval and price decree after sign by HE The Minister 8 The certificates of registration of products that have been approved for registration will be issued, which is valid for five years from the date of committee approval 9 Pharmaceutical certification (for local pharmaceutical products) is valid for one year from the date of issuance Conditions & Requirements Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by the Ministry of Health and have a valid license. FAQ’s What are the fees for obtaining a registration service for a conventional pharmaceutical product?
have a valid license. FAQ’s What are the fees for obtaining a registration service for a conventional pharmaceutical product? Application: AED100. Registration of a conventional or biological medicine product etc.: AED7,000. Analysis or re-analysis of a medical product: AED3,500. Pricing certificate after committee approval: AED500. For PV plan evaluation – AED1000. What is the average length of time for the registration of a conventional pharmaceutical product? 45 working days. What is the target group for a conventional pharmaceutical product registration service? Drug warehouses. Local pharmaceutical manufacturers. Marketing officers. What channels are available to apply for a conventional pharmaceutical product registration service? The Applications can be submitted through MOHAP Website and Smart Application. Service completion duration 45 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a conventional pharmaceutical product: AED 7,000 Analysis or re-analysis of a
Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a conventional pharmaceutical product: AED 7,000 Analysis or re-analysis of a medical product: AED 3,500 Pricing certificate after committee approval: AED 500 For PV plan evaluation: AED 1000 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohab Website MOHAP Smart Application Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing officers Resources Infographic - Registration of a Conventional Pharmaceutical Product - PDF 392KB Login User Manual Registration of a Conventional Pharmaceutical Produc E-CTD Requirements Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-007-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Medical Store
Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Medical Store licensing: related to licensing Department Local Manufacturer licensing Registration of a conventional pharmaceutical product is a pre-requisite for import service. Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages Number of Users 46 Number of Transactions 673 Notes Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. Required Documents The required documents are to be submitted in accordance with the requirements of the standard technical file eCTD (Electronic Common Technical Document)
Request for a List of Licensed Pharmaceutical Facilities in the UAE Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees AED 300 for each request About the Service This service allows customers to request a list of the licensed pharmaceutical facilities in the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the facility's account on MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Fill in the information, attach the required documents, and submit the application. 3 If the requirements are met, the application will be accepted. 4 Pay the service fees. 5 The notification of the approval will be sent to the applicant through email. 6 The applicant should upload the list. 7 If the requirements are not met, the request will not be accepted and the customer will need to attach the required documents and resend the application. Conditions & Requirements None FAQ’s Can the report be downloaded more than once? Yes Service completion
the application. Conditions & Requirements None FAQ’s Can the report be downloaded more than once? Yes Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees AED 300 for each request Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Call Center: 80011111  Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Licensed pharmaceutical institutions, research centers and audience. Resources User Manual 04_Request for a List of Licensed Pharmaceutical Facilities in the UAE Infographic - Request for a List of Licensed Pharmaceutical Facilities in the UAE - PDF 367KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-027-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related
Code 110-03-027-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services. Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles. Number of Users 0 Number of Transactions 0 Notes None Required Documents A request letter explaining the reason of requesting the list.
Analyze/ Re-Analysis of a Medical Product for A Pharmaceutical Company and Its Subsidiaries Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration A maximum of 30 working days from date of receiving samples and analysis requ... View more Service fees Fee for analysis of a medical product for a pharma... About the Service This service allows the analysis of medical products to ensure that their ingredients, active substance and preservatives are suitable for use. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS. 2 Fill in the product data in the assigned fields and attach the required documents on the online system. 3 Pay the fees and submit the application. 4 Transfer the examination request to the quality control lab for technical review and determination of the analysis requirements electronically. 5 Perform the required testing for the sample and issue the results: If the results conform: The certificate of conformance will be issued. If the results
for the sample and issue the results: If the results conform: The certificate of conformance will be issued. If the results do not conform: The certificate of nonconformance will be issued and a re-analysis request can be submitted by the applicant. Conditions & Requirements The technical file should consist of three main parts: analysis, stability study, and bioavailability and equivalence study (for chemical and biopharmaceuticals only), and should be submitted to the Drug Registration Department. The drug's uses should be clarified. The quantity of the sample should be sufficient, as per the requirements of the pharmaceutical form. FAQ’s How long does it take to analyze a medical product for a pharmaceutical institution and its affiliates? A maximum of 30 working days from date of receiving samples and analysis requirements. Service completion duration A maximum of 30 working days from date of receiving samples and analysis requirements. Service fees Fee for analysis of a medical
maximum of 30 working days from date of receiving samples and analysis requirements. Service fees Fee for analysis of a medical product for a pharmaceutical company and its subsidiaries: AED 3,000 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohap Website MOHAP Smart Application Quality control Laboratory and research for medical products (for technical file and analysis requirements submission) Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Drug warehouses Local pharmaceutical factories Resources User Manual - Registration Services Infographic - Analyze Medical Product for A Pharmaceutical Company and Its Subsidiaries Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Quality Control Laboratory for Medical Products Service Code 110-44-001-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is linking to other services as below:
Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is linking to other services as below: Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages Number of Users 54 Number of Transactions 1518 Required Documents Electronic application form. CD with all documents and information, such as eCTD. In the absence of eCTD of the product, the CD should contain: Certificate of final product analysis for three batches. Certificate of analysis of standard substances if the compound contains a therapeutic substance. Statement of composition certificate, listing the active and inactive ingredients, their concentrations and specifications. Certificate of final product specifications. Statement of method of analysis of final product and test validation methods (validation report for test methods). Analysis certificate of active and inactive ingredients in the finished product. If the analysis is constitutional, a copy of the most recent version of the
and inactive ingredients in the finished product. If the analysis is constitutional, a copy of the most recent version of the constitution must be attached. When high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) or gas chromatography (GC) are used in analysis, the chromatogram must be provided, and evidence of other methods, such as FTIR, TLC and UV spectrum, should also be provided. Standard samples and materials: A sufficient number of samples of the final product (enough to analyze the product three times) must be provided. Primary reference standard as USP and EP. Working standard with an attached certificate of analysis of all details. Related substance and degradation product standard for the active and preservative ingredients. If a special type of HPLC column was used, this must be provided to the laboratory. External packaging of the product and the enclosed leaflet, including all necessary data (batch number, date of manufacture and validity, storage conditions, name of
the enclosed leaflet, including all necessary data (batch number, date of manufacture and validity, storage conditions, name of commercial compound, name of manufacturer and country of origin, directions for use, capacity or volume, drug code if applicable, and any necessary warnings) must be provided. Copy of outer packaging. Copy of internal leaflet.
Request to publish a research paper Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days, depending on the study type and size View more Service fees Free About the Service This service allows researchers to upload their research and health studies to the Research Bank platform Service Process 1 Determine the type of study and fill out the required data 2 Attach the study with the necessary approvals 3 Statistics and Research Center researchers study the application and approve it Conditions & Requirements Approvals from the competent authorities must be obtained prior to conducting the research Research must be conducted within the UAE Service completion duration 5 working days, depending on the study type and size Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Researchers from various members of society Resources MOHAP Request Health Statistical Data User Guide v1 EN.pdf Department
Researchers from various members of society Resources MOHAP Request Health Statistical Data User Guide v1 EN.pdf Department name Statistics and Research Center Sector name Public Health Main service Medical Research and Healthcare Data Service Classfication Informational Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Required Documents Fill out the requirements on the Ministry’s website Attach the study and necessary approvals
Apply for Healthy Restaurant Accreditation Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 30 working days View more Service fees Free About the Service It is an “optional” accreditation service that aims to encourage restaurants to provide healthy meal options in addition to the initial meals provided to customers, which contributes to enhancing the health of community members. Service Process 1 The restaurant owner must complete the registration form. 2 The program coordinator will communicate with the restaurant owner wishing to participate in the initiative for development of the work plan by a nutritionist. 3 The restaurant owner must submit an application for evaluation to the program coordinator. 4 The restaurant will be evaluated and approved as healthy restaurant. Conditions & Requirements The restaurant must have a fixed location and offer integrated services. Have complete local control and authority in decision-making regarding the restaurant’s menu The
and offer integrated services. Have complete local control and authority in decision-making regarding the restaurant’s menu The restaurant must hold a local valid trade license. The restaurant must have received no more than two violation notifications over the past year from regulatory authorities, such as municipalities. Service completion duration 30 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: Health.ed@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: Health.ed@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Restaurants Resources HEALTHY INITIATIVE MANUAL 37742_pages Revised 1 HEALTY RESTAURANT INITIATIVE APPLICATION FORM Infographic - Apply for Healthy Restaurant Accreditation - PDF 404KB Department name Health Promotion Sector name Public Health Main service Health Promotion Programs Service Code
- PDF 404KB Department name Health Promotion Sector name Public Health Main service Health Promotion Programs Service Code 110-16-007-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes Registration guidelines: “Healthy Restaurant I nitiative” registration form Healthy Meals criteria Required Documents Registration form Copy of valid trade license Latest approved menu
Reporting adverse events of medical products from medical companies Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Free About the Service This service enables companies to request the evaluation of mandatory reports on the side effects and adverse reactions to local and internationally manufactured medicines imported into the UAE. Service Process 1 Applicant submits report by email to. 2 MOHAP staff concerned review the report. 3 Report is then sent to the World Health Organization (Uppsala Monitoring Center). 4 If necessary, circulars will be issued regarding the report. Conditions & Requirements The report should list all required patient data. The report should state all required data of the writer. The report should define the required drug data. The report should clearly state the side effects experienced from the drug. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations
from the drug. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Email: PV@mohap.gov.ae Support PV@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Marketing offices Medical stores Local and international pharmaceutical factories Patients Health care practitioners Health institutions Resources Infographic_Evaluation of Mandatory Reports of Adverse Localized Negative Reactions to Drugs Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Pharmaceutical vigilance Service Code 110-45-003-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Required Documents Report must satisfy all required data.
License for a Healthcare Advertisement on a Website or Digital Link Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 License for healthcare advertisement on website o... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for a license for a healthcare advertisement or advertising content on a healthcare website or digital link. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the service fee online. 7
or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the service fee online. 7 The customer shall print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One
the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 License for healthcare advertisement on website or link: AED 1,000 per month and AED 3,000 per year Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources
Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic - License for a Healthcare Advertisement on a Website or Digital Link - PDF 361KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-037-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any
Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 907 Notes None Required Documents A copy of the website homepage with the code link to the website Valid licenses of service providers listed on the website Valid registration or classification certificates of the products or pharmaceuticals listed on the website
Renewal of a Healthcare Program Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 License of an audio or audiovisual healthcare pro... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for the renewal of a previously issued healthcare program license to appear or participate in a radio or television show. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Click 'ad view' to show a list of possible transactions; the color of the transaction bar will change. 3 Select 'renew and open the transaction' and change the date as required. 4 Pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will approve the advertisement. 6 Pay the service fee online. 7 Print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications should be submitted at least 3 working days before the
dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications should be submitted at least 3 working days before the expiry of the original license. If any changes, additions or replacement of documents are required upon renewal, the application must be submitted on a new form. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution that holds a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice in the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a grou p with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organisation licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare
by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 License of an audio or audiovisual healthcare program: AED 1,200 per month and AED 12,000 per year License for participation in an audio healthcare program: AED 800 per month and AED 8,000 per year License for participation in an audiovisual healthcare program: AED 900 per month and AED 9,000 per year Note: The fees to renew health advertisements are the same as those for new licenses; there is no annual license renewal and, therefore, new applications are required Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae
MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support  Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval 15_Renewal of a Healthcare Program Infographic - Renewal of a Healthcare Program - PDF 373KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing
373KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-034-034 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents The e-system allows using the same original approved parent application to issue a new number, therefore the required documents will be already attached
Issue of a Certificate of Amendment of Registered Pharmaceutical Products Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 22 working days View more Service fees Certificate of amendment to any registered medical... About the Service This service enables clients to submit their applications for certificates of amendment to any previously registered product data including traditional and human products, products derived from natural sources, product for general sale, and others. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request online and complete the payment to meet all conditions 3 The officer concerned will review the application and notify the applicant online 4 The company should complete the requirements requested by the officer 5 The customer will follow up with the Pharmacological Analysis Section of at the Drug Department 6 The certificate shall be issued, provided that all the conditions and requirements are met
Section of at the Drug Department 6 The certificate shall be issued, provided that all the conditions and requirements are met Conditions & Requirements The application for minor variations to pharmaceutical products will not be accepted if the registration date has expired. All submitted documents should be provided on official papers holding the name and logo of the concerned company. The company should provide a valid proof that these proposed changes have been approved by the competent authorities of the country of origin. FAQ’s What are the fees for an amendment certificate concerning the registered pharmaceutical products? Amended certificate: AED 10,000 What is the average length of time for the issuance of an amendment certificate concerning the recorded pharmaceutical products? What is the average length of time for the issuance of an amendment certificate concerning the recorded pharmaceutical products? Drug warehouses. Local pharmaceutical manufacturers. Marketing offices .
concerning the recorded pharmaceutical products? Drug warehouses. Local pharmaceutical manufacturers. Marketing offices . Service completion duration 22 working days Service fees Certificate of amendment to any registered medical product data: AED 1000 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart Application Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Resources Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Drug Registration - External User Manual Infographic_Issue of a Certificate of Amendment of Registered Pharmaceutical Products Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-033-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not
Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked with other services. Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages. Number of Users 26 Number of Transactions 4799 Required Documents Application of minor variation of the pharmaceutical product for each type signed and stamped by the company. Documents required for minor variations in: Human pharmaceutical products (traditional, biological, … etc.). Pharmaceutical products derived from natural sources (herbal medicines, homeopathic medicines. Pharmaceutical products for general sale (supplements, disinfectants, medical cosmetics substances, miscellaneous). Medical equipment and reagents.
Renew a Health Facility License Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 2 working days View more Service fees License application fee: AED 100 Final License Fees About the Service This service allows health facilities to renew the necessary license to practice and provide health and treatment services in the UAE. Such facilities include public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit the application with the required documents, and pay application fee. 3 Once the application has been approved, the health facility license will be renewed. 4 License will be issued online and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website and smart app. Conditions &
4 License will be issued online and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website and smart app. Conditions & Requirements The facility must have been open and practising its commercial activity with a valid license for more than 6 months. The license must be renewed annually. If such renewal is delayed, fines will be calculated at a rate of 25% of the facility's basic fee for every 30 days up to 6 months. After the 6-month period, the license will be legally cancelled. FAQ’s Does the renewal fee vary depending on the type of medical facility? Yes, there is a difference according to the type of medical facility as follows: (General clinic/rehabilitation center/home healthcare center): AED 5000 Specialty clinic/diagnostic center/emergency services: AED 6000 Multi-speciality medical center (maximum 18000): AED 12000 IVF center/convalescence center/one-day surgery hospital: AED 20000 Hospital of 1-50 beds: AED 20000 Hospital of 51-100 beds: AED 30000 Hospital of more than 100
surgery hospital: AED 20000 Hospital of 1-50 beds: AED 20000 Hospital of 51-100 beds: AED 30000 Hospital of more than 100 beds: AED 40000 Service completion duration 2 working days Service fees License application fee: AED 100 Final License Fees Renewal of the license for general clinic/rehabilitation center/home healthcare center: AED 5000 Renewal of the license for specialty clinic/diagnostic center/emergency services: AED 6000 Renewal of the license for multi-speciality medical center (maximum 18000): AED 12000 Renewal of the license for IVF center/convalescence center/one-day surgery hospital: AED 20000 Renewal of the license for hospital of 1-50 beds: AED 20000 Renewal of the license for hospital of 51-100 beds: AED 30000 Renewal of the license for hospital of more than 100 beds: AED 40000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support
Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Call Center: 80011111 Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities (hospital, convalescent home, fertility center, emergency center, home medical center, general and specialized clinics, multi-specialty center, medical diagnosis center, rehabilitation center, one-day surgery center). Resources Architectural - PDF 670KB RENEWAL FORM - PDF 24KB User Manual - Renewal of a Private Medical Facility License - PDF 1485KB Infographic - Renew a Health Facility License - PDF 420KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licensing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-054 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Departments of Economic
Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Departments of Economic Development: Issuance of a commercial license Civil Defense: Issuance of the certificate of fulfillment of preventive safety conditions Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation: Issuance of the radiation protection license Medical Waste Disposal Agreement from the authorities concerned in each emirate Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles. Number of Users 1424 Number of Transactions 1415 Notes None Required Documents External billboard of the facility Medical waste agreement List of medical equipment Price list of services License of radiation protection (issued by the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation) Trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development Certificate of preventive safety (issued by the Civil Defense) List of partners' names Internal regulations and rules of the facility Approved facility layout Recent license of the
Defense) List of partners' names Internal regulations and rules of the facility Approved facility layout Recent license of the facility Letter to apply for the renewal of the license A copy of the RIAYATI system Registration in Tatmeen Additional documents for hospital and one day surgery centers: JCI certificate for the quality of health services or other accreditations (such as, Canadian and Australian accreditation) Additional documents for schools and nurseries: A letter clarifying the total number of students, including gender and grade in which they are studying, and the capacity.
Issue/Cancel Pharmacy Home Delivery Permit Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Self-inspection: 1 working day Field inspection: 1 - 5 working... View more Service fees Free About the Service This service enables the issuance/cancellation of home delivery permit for the pharmacies. Service Process 1 Login to the facility's account on MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS. 2 Select (Issue/Cancel), Fill out the data, attach the required documents, and submit the application. 3 Fill in the data and complete the data for the self-inspection and attach the documents required for submission. Conditions & Requirements The classification of the establishment should be 'pharmacy'. The establishment license should be valid. The pharmacist-in-charge should have a valid license. FAQ’s Is this service available to all pharmacies? The service is available only to pharmacies licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention in Sharjah and the Northern Emirates Service
is available only to pharmacies licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention in Sharjah and the Northern Emirates Service completion duration Self-inspection: 1 working day Field inspection: 1 - 5 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 8011111  Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Pharmacies licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention Resources Pharmaceutical Licensing User Manual Resolution 90 2021 Medical Products-Pharmacy Profession and Pharmaceutical Establishments - Available in Arabic Infographic -Issue:Cancel Pharmacy Home Delivery Permit.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licensing and Registration Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub
Medical Establishment Licensing and Registration Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes An electronic notification of approval will be sent to the applicant. Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents Trade license Vehicle Registration Card Storage Unit Photo Storage Unit Temperature
License for Healthcare Advertisement on Social Media Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly license for healthcare advertisement on so... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for a license to advertise on a social media account. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fee online or through a Customer Happiness Center. 7 The customer can print the ad design,
approval, the customer shall pay the fee online or through a Customer Happiness Center. 7 The customer can print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice in the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each
names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly license for healthcare advertisement on social media: AED 1,000 per month Annual license for healthcare advertisement on social media: AED 3,000 per year Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and
Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic - License for Healthcare Advertisement on Social Media - PDF 372KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-033-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not
Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 1494 Notes None Required Documents Name of social media account Valid licenses of service providers listed on the website Valid registration or classification certificates of any products or pharmaceuticals listed in the account
Cancellation of a Doctor's License Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED100 About the Service This service allows medical facilities to apply for the cancellation of previously issued doctors’ licenses, including those of various levels in the medical and dental professions. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application. If it meets the requirements, the application will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred
5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements Fines, if any, must be paid fully Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fees: AED100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations  MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart
channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations  MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Private health facilities, general practitioners, dentists, specialist physicians, consultant physicians Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Infographic - Cancellation of a Doctor_s License - PDF 366KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-010-018 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 430 Number of Transactions 2227 Notes None  Required Documents Letter from the facility requesting the cancellation of the license Copy of the doctor's valid license
None  Required Documents Letter from the facility requesting the cancellation of the license Copy of the doctor's valid license Cancellation of residence license or business card
Renewal of Licenses for Nursing and Medical Professionals Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Instant Renewal View more Service fees Private Sector: Semi government sector: About the Service This service allows medical facilities (private, government, and semi-government) to submit their requests to renew the licenses of their nursing practitioners and medical and dental technicians of various specializations and levels. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Fill in the information, attach the required documents, and submit the application. 3 If the requirements are met, the application will be approved and the customer will pay the service fees. 4 The license will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website and smart app. Conditions & Requirements A medical report is required if the doctor is 60 years and above. Number of continuing education hours
& Requirements A medical report is required if the doctor is 60 years and above. Number of continuing education hours required for nursing practitioners (20 hours) and medical and dental technicians (10 hours). Service completion duration Instant Renewal Service fees Private Sector: Application fees: 100 AED Renewal of a license to practice the profession of nursing or the profession of medical technician and alternative medicine: AED 1000 Semi government sector: Application fees: AED 100 (for all applications types) Government Sector: Free (for all applications types) Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Support Call Center: 80011111 Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Private Medical facilities/government / semi government (registered nurses, assistant nurses, registered midwives, assistant midwives, medical laboratory technicians, occupational therapists,
nurses, assistant nurses, registered midwives, assistant midwives, medical laboratory technicians, occupational therapists, opticians, audiologists, radiographers, anesthetists, geneticists ,beauty therapist, emergency technician, dialysis technicians, dental assistants, psychologists and social workers, and other medical specialties.) Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1-1 -PDF 9618KB User Manual - Renewal of Licenses for Nursing and Medical Professionals - PDF 1830KB Infographic - Renewal of Licenses for Nursing and Medical Professionals - PDF 389KB Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-017-019 Service Type Government to Business Related Services License for Nursing and Medical Professionals Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles. Number of Users 6441 Number of Transactions 11841 Notes None Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents Number of continuing education
11841 Notes None Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents Number of continuing education hours required for nursing practitioners (20 hours) and medical and dental technicians (10 hours) Valid Insurance Against Medical Faults Valid Labor Card Valid National Identity Card Valid Visa Copy
Licensing of Pharmacists Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 License to practice pharmacy: AED 1,000 About the Service This service enables medical and pharmaceutical facilities to apply for licenses for employees, including first or second official pharmacists and assistant pharmacists. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The client (facility) must access the website service to license professionals through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The client must refer the transaction to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application. If it meets requirements, the application will be approved and the transaction will be sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The client (facility) must pay the fees through the website, after
will be sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The client (facility) must pay the fees through the website, after which the transaction will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the transaction with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license): The client (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements At least two years of experience is required. There should be no more than a two-year gap in the applicant's work record. The assessment certificate is valid for Five years only. FAQ’s I have not
than a two-year gap in the applicant's work record. The assessment certificate is valid for Five years only. FAQ’s I have not practiced my profession for two years, so how do I apply for a license from the Ministry of Health in Dubai? Physicians and technicians must have at least four months of clinical experience in addition to CME hours (as per the period of non-practice). Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 License to practice pharmacy: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical and pharmaceutical facilities First official pharmacist Second official pharmacist Assistant pharmacist Resources (PQR) 2014-en Pharmaceutical_Licensing_English_End_User_Manual_Ver_1 Infographic Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-009-000 Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type
Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-009-000 Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Ministry of Interior - Electronic Approval Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation - Issuance of a contract and job card MOHAP - Licensing of medical facilities Service Bundle Access to this service is not linked with any package Number of Users 4138 Number of Transactions 3917 Required Documents Scientific and academic certificates. Certificates of recent experience from employer. Valid assessment certificate. Certificate of criminal clearance. Letter of license request from the facility. Job offer. List of employees licensed to work in the facility. Copy of valid passport. Copy of valid residence license. Copy of valid Emirates ID card. Pharmacist's character reference (form available at Customer Happiness Centers). List of controlled medicines (for official pharmacist). Employment contract. Labor card.
Renew License of healthcare advertisement for a Licensed Healthcare Institution in the UAE Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Fees for licensing healthcare advertisements depen... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for the renewal of a license for a healthcare advertisement for a healthcare facility in the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Click 'ad view' to show a list of possible transactions; the color of the transaction bar will change. 3 Select 'renew and open the transaction' and change the date as required. 4 Pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will approve the advertisement. 6 Pay the service fee online. 7 Print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications should be
the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications should be submitted at least 3 working days before the expiry of the original license. If any changes, additions or replacement of documents are required upon renewal, the application must be submitted on a new form. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution that holds a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related
each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Fees for licensing healthcare advertisements depend on the category of the advertising facility's activity (clinic, healthcare center, hospital etc.) and the type of advertisement (print, audio, audiovisual) Kindly refer to the attached schedule of fees Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App  Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors
Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Infographic - Renew License of healthcare advertisement for a Licensed Healthcare Institution in the UAE - PDF 363KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-035-036 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents The e-system allows the use of the original approved application, under a new number, with the required documents attached
Request for a register for controlled or semi-controlled drugs custody Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Register Fee AED300 About the Service This service enables clinics, pharmacies, and medical warehouses to submit application to obtain a register of controlled and semi-controlled drugs custody. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The customer must fill in the application form requesting the issuance of the register, and submit it 3 The application will be reviewed and verified by the Drug Department 4 If the application is approved, the customer must pay the associated fees online 5 Once the payment is processed, the controlled register will be sent to the customer via courier Conditions & Requirements The healthcare facility must hold a valid license. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Register Fee AED300 Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations
Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Register Fee AED300 Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations MOHAP Website (The service is available daily 24 hours) Support controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies within private hospitals, licensed by MOHAP or DHCC Pharmaceutical warehouses Pharmacies licensed by MOHAP or DHCC Clinics licensed by MOHAP or DHCC Resources Infographic - Request for a register for controlled or semi-controlled drugs custody Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-013-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Notes The service is only available for healthcare facilities licensed by MOHAP and DHCC. Required Documents A Letter addressed to the Director of Drug Department requesting the register. Copy of valid facility license.
Cancellation of a Pharmaceutical Facility's License Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Cancellation of a pharmacy license: AED 100 About the Service This service allows pharmaceutical facilities to apply for the cancellation of their licenses. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. Submit the application, attach the required documents, and pay the application fee. 2 The employee concerned will review and verify the application to make sure it is complete. 3 The application to cancel the license will be approved. Conditions & Requirements Fines, if any, must be paid. Licenses of the facility's pharmacists must be cancelled or transferred before the facility can cancel its license. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Cancellation of a pharmacy license: AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations
Cancellation of a pharmacy license: AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies Warehouses Manufacturers of medicines and medical devices Marketing Offices Warehouses for re-export Resources MOHAP-Misiterial-Decree-1110-2016-about-the-Scientific-offices MoH_Ministerial_Decree_60-2013_regulating_Medical_Stores Pharmaceutical_Licensing_End_User_Manual_en Infographic - Cancellation of a Pharmaceutical Facility_s License - PDF 369KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-020-028 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: Service
Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 194 Notes None Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents A copy of the facility's license issued by MOHAP A request letter from the owner to cancel the license Current commercial license issued by the Department of Economic Development
Renewal of Registration of a Conventional Pharmaceutical Product Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a conventional biological pharmace... About the Service This service enables clients to submit applications to renew the registration of conventional, biological or other human pharmaceutical products for importation and trading within the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request online, meet all conditions and pay the required fees 3 The registration officer will review the online application and notify the applicant online 4 The company should complete the requirements requested by the officer 5 The customer will follow up with the Analysis Section of at the Drug Department (whenever requested) 6 The certificates of registration renewal will be issued provided all conditions and requirements are fulfilled. They will be valid
certificates of registration renewal will be issued provided all conditions and requirements are fulfilled. They will be valid for five years effective from the last expiry date of the last registration certificate Conditions & Requirements Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by the Ministry of Health and have a valid license. Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Registration of a conventional biological pharmaceutical product: AED 3,500 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Resources Login User Manual Infographic - Renewal of Registration of a Conventional Pharmaceutical Product Department name
Resources Login User Manual Infographic - Renewal of Registration of a Conventional Pharmaceutical Product Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-007-007 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Number of Users 114 Number of Transactions 755 Notes Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. Required Documents Application to renew the registration of pharmaceutical product a signed and stamped [Part A from the MAH and part B from the manufacturing site]. Certificate of registration of the original product issued by the Ministry of Health & Prevention.(whenever requested). A recent copy of the certificate of pharmaceutical product [CPP] issued by the concerned authorities in the country of origin attested by the United Arab Emirates Embassy. Valid copy of the
issued by the concerned authorities in the country of origin attested by the United Arab Emirates Embassy. Valid copy of the registration certificate of the manufacturer issued by the Ministry of Health & Prevention. A copy of all certificates of minor changes issued by the Ministry of Health & Prevention. External packaging data, inner packaging, internal leaflet. Samples of the pharmaceutical product submitted for renewal within the UAE with the certificate of analysis. Documents related to the active substances (DMF) or approvals from the concerned authorities, letter from the source (factory) clarifying active ingredient. Pharmacovigilance system of the company or medical product and risk management plan. Price certificate (whenever requested).
Verification of Registration of a Nursing Certificate Issued Outside UAE Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Instant View more Service fees 100 AED About the Service This service allows nursing and midwifery professionals to verify, validate and authenticate the certificate of their professional registration and assessment issued by MOHAP. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer fills in the required information (last evaluation certificate number, Emirates ID, or the passport number) and address of the recipient 3 The customer clicks on Save and electronic payment to submit. Note: In case the payment has been done already in the previous system NMIS, please click the payment done option and provide receipt reference number (4 digits). Conditions & Requirements None Service completion duration Instant Service fees 100 AED Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart
None Service completion duration Instant Service fees 100 AED Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: EPT.support@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Nurse, assistant nurse, midwife and assistant midwife. Resources PQR Infographic - Verification of Registration of a Nursing Certificate Issued Outside UAE - PDF 368KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Verification of Registration of a Nursing Certificate Issued Outside UAE Service Code 110-06-012-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services. Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles. Number of Users 273 Notes None Required Documents None
License for a Healthcare Advertisement through Call Centers Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly healthcare advertising license for a call... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for a license to establish and operate a call center related to healthcare products or services. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fee online or through a Customer Happiness
or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fee online or through a Customer Happiness Center. 7 The customer shall print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each
affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly healthcare advertising license for a call center: AED 1,000 per month Annual healthcare advertising license for a call center: AED 10,000 per year Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Support  Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target
www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Support  Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic - License for a Healthcare Advertisement through Call Centers - PDF 363KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-031-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub
Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-031-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents A letter from the facility stating the details and nature of the call center Valid licenses for the call center employees Registration certificates of any products or pharmaceuticals involved
Renewal of Registration Certificate for Medical Professional Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration The time required to complete the service is 30 working days, allocated as follo... View more Service fees Application fees: AED 250 Registration card: AED 150 About the Service This service allows clients to submit an application to renew the registration certificates of practitioners in the nursing and midwifery professions, complete the renewal process and present their relevant scientific and experience requirements. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Fill in the required information, submit the assessment request and pay the fee. 3 Upon receiving the DataFlow link, the customer must pay the DataFlow fee, submit the initial profile for approval, and specify a date to send the DataFlow report. 4 Upon receipt of the report, the prescribed exams must be taken and the associated fee must be paid.
send the DataFlow report. 4 Upon receipt of the report, the prescribed exams must be taken and the associated fee must be paid. 5 The assessment certificate will be issued upon completing all examinations. 6 In case of failure, the exam can be retaken (the maximum number of attempts is 3 for each category). Conditions & Requirements There may be no more than a two-year gap in applicant's work record. Refer to the Unified Healthcare Professional Qualification Requirements (PQR) Manual for verification of the required years of experience and conformity of scientific certificates. The certificate must be from a recognized university. Experience is calculated from the license issuance date. Non-citizen graduates of universities and colleges within the UAE must submit an experience certificate stamped by the Ministry of Health Training and Development Center as per Federal Law No. (7) of 1975 regarding the practice of medicine, or accredited by the Health Department in Dubai or Abu Dhabi,
Federal Law No. (7) of 1975 regarding the practice of medicine, or accredited by the Health Department in Dubai or Abu Dhabi, indicating practical training as described in the Professional Qualifications Requirements (PQR) Manual. Graduates who are licensed by the following countries will be exempt from the exam: Canada, South Africa, USA, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand and Britain, as well as UAE citizens who live outside the country, served in MOHAP before 6/1993, and who passed the exam in the period from 1993 to 2011. A positive report from DataFlow. Certificates are accepted in Arabic or English. Certificates in other languages must be translated legally and duly attested. Certificates must be attested, however the client may apply for the exam without an attested certificate, provided it is attested upon issue of the license in accordance with the requirements of other entities (such as the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation). In case of referral from the Dubai
requirements of other entities (such as the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation). In case of referral from the Dubai Health Authority and Department of Health Abu Dhabi, the license must be valid or have been renewed or canceled for a period no longer than 6 months, failing which the referral will not be valid and the applicant will be required to take the examinations. Examinations may be attempted a maximum of three times. The certificates are valid for 5 years. Service completion duration The time required to complete the service is 30 working days, allocated as follows: Submission of required documents via the website: 30 to 45 minutes Issue of link to pay the certificate verification fees (DataFlow): 7 working days Issue of Dataflow approval of personal profile: 7 working days Profile referral to specialists for document verification and referral to examinations: 7 working days Submission and activation of Prometric exam link to book examination dates: 2 working days
to examinations: 7 working days Submission and activation of Prometric exam link to book examination dates: 2 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 250 Registration card: AED 150 Verification of certificates for government employees: AED 300 DataFlow services fees to verify academic certificates for employees of the private sector: AED 1,200 Service channels Printing Offices MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Call Center: 80011111 Email: EPT.support@mohap.gov.ae  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Registered nurses, nursing assistants, registered midwives and assistant midwives Resources Evaluation For Medical Professionals - Applicant User Manual Ver Infographic - Renewal of Registration Certificate for Medical Professional - PDF 407KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Professional Evaluation Service Code
name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Professional Evaluation Service Code 110-06-008-050 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 8565 Notes Registration guidelines: Prometric Exam Reservation Link Required Documents Academic certificates Proof of any legal change to the name (such as a marriage document or any other official document) Transcript of grades of academic certificates Equivalence of academic certificates for holders of masters and doctorate degrees from the Ministry of Higher Education and the scientific research papers License from MOHAP or the Health Authority in Dubai or Abu Dhabi or Human Resources letter if the client is an employee of MOHAP Passport, visa and valid UAE ID Family book for citizens Continuous Education Hours
if the client is an employee of MOHAP Passport, visa and valid UAE ID Family book for citizens Continuous Education Hours (approved 20 hours required) DataFlow report Expired registration certificate Certificate of good professional conduct issued by the licensing authority and valid for at least 6 months from the date of issue BLS certificate for cardiopulmonary resuscitation
Renewal License for a Healthcare Advertisement through Call Centers Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly healthcare advertising license for a call ... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for the renewal of a license to establish and operate a call center related to healthcare products or services. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Click 'ad view' to show a list of possible transactions; the color of the transaction bar will change. 3 Select 'renew and open the transaction' and change the date as required. 4 Pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will approve the advertisement. 6 Pay the service fee online or through a Customer Happiness Center. 7 Print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal
the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications should be submitted at least 3 working days before the expiry of the original licence. If any changes, additions or replacement of documents are required upon renewal, the application must be submitted on a new form. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution that holds a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organisation licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that
account must be opened for each commercial organisation licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly healthcare advertising license for a call center: AED 1,000 per month or Annual healthcare advertising license for a call center: AED 10,000 per year Note: The fees to renew health advertisements are the same as those for new licenses; there is no annual license renewal and, therefore, new applications are required. Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae    MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment
locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae    MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval 11_Renewal License for a Healthcare Advertisement through Call Centers Infographic - Renewal License for a Healthcare Advertisement through Call Centers - PDF 367KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service
name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-031-031 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes   None  Required Documents The e-system allows the use of the original approved application, under a new number, with the required documents attached
Changing the Professional Titles of Nursing Practitioners and Medical Professionals Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 About the Service This service allows clients to apply to change the professional titles of practitioners in the nursing, medical and dental professions of different specialties and levels. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility and provide all the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application. If the application meets the requirements, it will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the
sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all the conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements A valid assessment certificate updated as per the Health Professional Licensing Requirements (PQR) Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Service channels
Licensing Requirements (PQR) Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical facilities Registered nurses Nursing assistants Registered midwives Assistant midwives Medical laboratory technicians Occupational therapists Opticians Audiologists Radiologists Anesthetists Geneticists Beauticians Emergency technicians Dialysis technicians Dental assistants Psychologists and social workers Other medical specialists Resources MEDICAL LICENSING - USER MANUAL Changing the Professional Titles of Nursing Practitioners and Medical Professionals Infographic - Changing the Professional Titles of Nursing Practitioners and Medical Professionals - PDF 376KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation
Practitioners and Medical Professionals - PDF 376KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-008-038 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 211 Number of Transactions 74 Notes None Required Documents Letter requesting the change in the title submitted by the facility Copy of business card Copy of assessment certificate
Renewal of a Healthcare Advertisement License for non Healthcare Institution Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Fees for licensing healthcare advertisements depen... About the Service This service allows a customer to renew a previously issued license for a healthcare advertisement for a non-healthcare facility. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Click 'ad view' to show a list of possible transactions; the color of the transaction bar will change. 3 Select 'renew and open the transaction' and change the date as required. 4 Pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will approve the advertisement. 6 Pay the service fee online or through a Customer Happiness Center. 7 Print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications
including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications should be submitted at least 3 working days before the expiry of the original license. If any changes, additions or replacement of documents are required upon renewal, the application must be submitted on a new form. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution that holds a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities
opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Please make sure to update the facility's details prior to submission of the renewal request. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Fees for licensing healthcare advertisements depend on the category of the advertising facility's activity (clinic, healthcare center, hospital etc.) and the type of advertisement (print, audio, audiovisual) Kindly refer to the attached schedule of fees Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111
Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Infographic - Renewal of a Healthcare Advertisement License for non Healthcare Institution - PDF 363KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-035-035 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents The e-system allows the use of the original approved application, under a new number, with the required documents attached
Issue of a Certificate of Accreditation for a Center of Clinical Studies or Bioequivalence Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 4 months View more Service fees Approval certificate of clinical studies or bioequ... About the Service This service enables clients to apply for the accreditation of GCC-approved centers for clinical or bioequivalence studies. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The application must include the documents required in accordance with Section 09 of the bioavailability/bioequivalence documentation application form 3 The officer in charge will review the documents and application for initial approval 4 The technical committee/higher committee shall evaluate the application for conventional drug registration 5 The certificate will be issued Conditions & Requirements This application should be submitted by the pharmaceutical company or the local agent which contracted with BA/BE center along with
application should be submitted by the pharmaceutical company or the local agent which contracted with BA/BE center along with letter of authorization. The service is not required for bioavailability/bioequivalence centers approved by GCC countries. Service completion duration 4 months Service fees Approval certificate of clinical studies or bioequivalence center: 2,000 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Resources Infographic_Issue of a Certificate of Accreditation for a Center of Clinical Studies or Bioequivalence Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-022-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 2
Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 2 Required Documents The following documents are required, according to each stage in the service: Phase I (at the Center): Application form. Latest inspection report issued by competent authority (if any). Notarized Copy of the operating license issued by the competent authority in the country of origin. Copy of the Contract(s) of Leasing of the Clinical Unit and of the Rendering of Services of Laboratory Analysis (if applicable). Training schedule for employees. Curricula of the main researchers and the persons responsible for the clinical, analytical and statistical stages. List of SOP’s , and 5 SOP’s from the above mentioned should be provided. Organizational chart of the center and the study plan. Background of the Bio equivalence Center (Site, Master file), including total number of studies conducted and list of those submitted to other health authorities.
(Site, Master file), including total number of studies conducted and list of those submitted to other health authorities. Notarized copy of accreditation certificates. Clinical Phase: Notarized copy of the operating license issued by the competent authority in the country of origin (in case of outsourcing). Staff training schedule. List of the equipment and instruments used. The following SOPs: collecting samples , emergency care of subjects, hospitalization of subjects, cleaning and preparation of areas for hospitalization of subjects. Clinical Laboratory Analysis Stage: Notarized copy of the operating license issued by the competent authority in the country of origin (in case of outsourcing). Staff training schedule. List of the equipment and instruments used. List of technicians in the area with the technical qualifications for each professional. Models of the control file / control records used ( temperature of the refrigerators, freezes, room temperature, room humidity,
Models of the control file / control records used ( temperature of the refrigerators, freezes, room temperature, room humidity, calibration of pipettes, reagents and standards). Bio-safety programs. Analysis Phase: Notarized copy of the operating license issued by the competent authority in the country of origin (in case of outsourcing). Staff training schedule. List of the equipment and instruments used. List of area technicians with technical qualifications for each professional. Models of the control file / control records used ( temperature of the refrigerators, freezes, room temperature, room humidity, calibration of pipettes, reagents and standards). Statistics Stage: Standards Operation Procedures, contemplating of the following points: a. Data entry ((tabulation, verification of transcript data, software used). b. Data processing and statistical analysis (methods of calculating pharmacokinetic parameter methods to identify factors to define the outliers, variance analysis,
(methods of calculating pharmacokinetic parameter methods to identify factors to define the outliers, variance analysis, confidence interval calculation and program used). Proof of contract between the bio-equivalence center and the person in charge of statistics (in case of outsourcing).
Cancellation of Licenses for Nurses and Medical Professionals Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 About the Service This service allows private medical facilities to apply to cancel the licenses of employees, including practitioners in the nursing, medical and dental professions of various specialties and levels. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility and provide all the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application. If the application meets the requirements, it will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the
sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all the conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements Any outstanding fines must be paid Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service
3 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical facilities Registered nurses Nursing assistants Registered midwives Assistant midwives Medical laboratory technicians Occupational therapists Opticians Audiologists Radiologists Anesthetists Geneticists Beauticians Emergency technicians Dialysis technicians Dental assistants Psychologists and social workers Other medical specialists Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Login User Manual Medical licensing applicant user manual english Infographic - Cancellation of Licenses for Nurses and Medical Professionals - PDF 371KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-008-039 Service
Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-008-039 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 868 Number of Transactions 2855 Notes None Required Documents A letter requesting cancellation of the license submitted by the facility Copy of the last license Cancellation of the residence or business card
Issue of Permit to Import Chemical Precursors Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Fees for importing precursor chemicals: 1% of the ... About the Service This service enables industrial and commercial companies to obtain approval to import precursor chemicals from abroad. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The customer should submit the application for the import via the e-services and pay the application fees 3 The application will be reviewed and verified to make sure that all the required documents have been submitted 4 If the application is complete, it will be transferred to the Federal Directorate of Drug Control at the Ministry of Interior for security clearance 'If needed' 5 If the security clearance is approved, the application will be transferred to the customer to proceed with payments 6 Once the customer completes the application and makes the
will be transferred to the customer to proceed with payments 6 Once the customer completes the application and makes the payment, the permission of import for chemical precursors will be issued and will be valid for two months 7 If the security clearance is rejected/ denied, the customer will be notified, and the file will be retained in the system Conditions & Requirements MOHAP Registration Certificate and Trade License must be valid. Permit and detailed information about the material required by the authorized and accredited officer must be provided. Ministry of Interior's prior approval for chemical precursors must be obtained. Permit must be valid for two months from the date of issuance. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Fees for importing precursor chemicals: 1% of the invoice value and a minimum of AED 200 for each permit Service channels Service Centers Email Service locations E-mail: controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Office
for each permit Service channels Service Centers Email Service locations E-mail: controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Office - Cargo Village Support SmartServicesSupport@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Industrial and commercial companies dealing with precursor chemicals Resources 05_Issue of Permit to Import Chemical Precursors Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Clearance, Import and Export Permits Service Code 110-02-006-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Users 9 Number of Transactions 1561 Notes The completion of the import permission is dependent on the approval of the Ministry of Interior. The import permission is valid for two months. Required Documents Completed e-form. Valid Commercial / Industrial License. Registration Certificate from MOHAP for the trading of precursor chemicals or importing as an end-user. Air or sea shipping invoice. Delivery
from MOHAP for the trading of precursor chemicals or importing as an end-user. Air or sea shipping invoice. Delivery order from shipping company. Purchase invoice issued by country of origin. Packing list must include net weight and gross weight. Original Customs Declaration.
License for Nursing and Medical Professionals Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED100 License to practice nursing, medicine or alternati... About the Service This service allows private medical facilities to apply for licenses for employees in the nursing profession, as well as medical and dental professionals of various specialties and levels. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must access the website through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application and if it meets the requirements, the application will be approved and then sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay
the application will be approved and then sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fees through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license issuance, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements Applicant must have at least two years of experience. A gap in the work record may not exceed two years. The assessment certificate is valid for five
least two years of experience. A gap in the work record may not exceed two years. The assessment certificate is valid for five years. A certificate of functional fitness from the Department of Preventive Medicine is required if the applicant is aged 60 or older. DataFlow report should be 'positive' or 'not verified'. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: AED100 License to practice nursing, medicine or alternative medicine: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical facilities Registered nurses Nursing assistants Registered midwives Assistant midwives Medical laboratory technicians Occupational therapists Opticians Audiologists Radiologists Anesthetists Geneticists Beauticians Emergency
technicians Occupational therapists Opticians Audiologists Radiologists Anesthetists Geneticists Beauticians Emergency technicians Dialysis technicians Dental assistants Psychologists and social workers Resources Login User Manual Medical_Facility_Licensing_English_End_User_Manual_Ver_1 26_License for Nursing and Medical Professionals Infographic - License for Nursing and Medical Professionals - PDF 377KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-017-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Ministry of Interior - Electronic Approval Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation - Issuance of a contract and job card MOHAP - Licensing of medical facilities Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 3532 Notes None Required Documents Valid assessment certificate Certificates of recent
linked to any bundles Number of Users 3532 Notes None Required Documents Valid assessment certificate Certificates of recent experience from the employer Certificate of good conduct Letter of authorization request from the facility Job offer List of doctors and technicians licensed to work in the facility Copy of valid passport Recent passport-size photo with white background Copy of valid residence license Copy of valid Emirates ID card Employment contract Business card Insurance against medical errors
Registration/ Renewal of Chemical Precursor Companies Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days to issue the registration certificate from the Ministry of Hea... View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Registration of a chemical precursor company: AED ... About the Service This service allows applications for the registration/ renewal of chemical precursor companies for the purpose of internal trade, to import for the purpose of end use, to import and export, as an intermediary for import and export trade, or as an end user for factories and companies dealing with chemical precursors. There are five types of MOHAP Registration Certificates: 1. Importing/ Exporting/ Trading Precursor Chemicals: The company is authorized to import/export and trade with precursor chemicals locally and overseas. The company should seek MOHAP approval for each import/ export Shipment prior to shipping. 2. Import as End User of Precursor Chemicals: The company is
MOHAP approval for each import/ export Shipment prior to shipping. 2. Import as End User of Precursor Chemicals: The company is authorized to import and purchase the precursor chemicals for their internal use and manufacturing purposes only. Moreover, it is not allowed to sell the chemicals to other parties. The company should seek MOHAP approval for each import shipment prior to shipping. 3. End User of Precursor Chemicals: The company is authorized to purchase the precursor chemicals from local distributors for their own internal use only and they are not authorized to sell the precursor chemicals. 4. Domestic Trading of Precursor Chemicals: The company is authorized to buy and sell the precursor chemicals inside the country only. It isn’t allowed to import/ export precursor chemicals. 5. Intermediary Trading of Precursor Chemicals: The company is authorized to do the any documentation transactions for trading of precursor chemicals. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or
to do the any documentation transactions for trading of precursor chemicals. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The customer must submit the application for registration of the company via the e-services and pay the application fees 3 The application will be reviewed and verified to make sure that all the required documents have been submitted and completed 4 If the application is completed, it will be transferred to the Federal Directorate of Drug Control at the Ministry of Interior for security clearance 5 If the security clearance is approved, the application will be transferred to the customer to proceed with completion and payments 6 Once the customer completes the application and the fees, the company registration of chemical precursors will be issued in accordance with the mentioned activity and will be valid for one year 7 If the security clearance is rejected/ denied, the customer will be notified, and the file will be retained in
for one year 7 If the security clearance is rejected/ denied, the customer will be notified, and the file will be retained in the system Conditions & Requirements Commercial license, industrial license and Chamber of Commerce and Industry certificates must be valid for at least 3 months. Application will be approved by the Ministry of Interior after audit and inspection have been conducted. Service completion duration 3 working days to issue the registration certificate from the Ministry of Health and Prevention, following the issuance of security approval from the Ministry of Interior, which takes 4-6 weeks Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Registration of a chemical precursor company: AED 10,000 Renewal of Registration of a chemical precursor company: AED 5,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae - MOHAP Smart App Support controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience
- www.mohap.gov.ae - MOHAP Smart App Support controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Companies using chemical precursors Resources INTERMEDIARY IMPORT- EXPORT IMPORT AS END USER DOMESTRIC END-USER Infographic_Renewal of Chemical Precursor Company Registration Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-024-024 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Number of Transactions 555 Notes The completion of the service is dependent on the approval of the Ministry of Interior Registration guidelines: Application to register a company for internal trade in chemical precursors Application to register a company as an end-user of chemical precursors Request to register a company to import chemical precursors for final use Application to register a company for trade, import and export of chemical precursors
import chemical precursors for final use Application to register a company for trade, import and export of chemical precursors Application to register a company as an intermediary for the trade, import and export of chemical precursors Required Documents Copy of trade license, valid for more than three months. Copy of industrial license, valid for more than three months. List of the required chemical precursors. Copies of the passport and Emirates ID of the company owner, citizen partners and non-citizen partners. Facility card. Copy of the company's memorandum of association, certified by a public notary, stating the percentage of the citizen partner (51% of the capital), except for those companies established in the free zones. Copy of signatory's letter of credit (approved by official authorities). Copy of Chamber of Commerce and Industry certificate, valid for more than three months.
Cancellation of a License to Practice as a Pharmacist Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Application fees: 100 AED About the Service This service allows medical and pharmaceutical facilities to submit their requests to cancel the license of a pharmacy worker, including a pharmacist in-charge, second pharmacist, or assistant pharmacist. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application and if it meets the requirements, the application will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the
sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements Pay fines, if any Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: 100 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App
Application fees: 100 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacist in-charge, second pharmacist, assistant pharmacist Resources Pharmaceutical_Licensing_End_User_Manual_en PQR V Cancellation of a License to Practice as a Pharmacist Infographic - Cancellation of a License to Practice as a Pharmacist - PDF 368KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-009-016 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 57 Notes None Required Documents A letter by the establishment to cancel the license
Issue of Permit to Import Medicines for Exhibitions Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1 Working day View more Service fees Application fee: AED100 Entry Permit fee for medical products: AED 1,000 About the Service This service enables customers to apply for a permit to import innovative medical products from abroad for the purpose of displaying them at health exhibitions, forums and conferences, and re-export it again. Import of such products is permitted for a limited period and the products are not allowed to be traded in the UAE "Import for Re-export". Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the application online with the required documents 3 The employee concerned at the Ministry of Health and Prevention will evaluate the application 4 The permit will be automatically issued by the system and the customer can download the file Conditions & Requirements The Purchase invoice should include country of origin,
system and the customer can download the file Conditions & Requirements The Purchase invoice should include country of origin, batch/ serial number and dates of production and expiry (The validity date must be more than two-thirds of the product validity period). The product(s) are only to be displayed in the mentioned event and a clear statement regarding their status as unregistered non-priced should be displayed at the event. The advertisement for the medical products for exhibition at local media is not allowed. It's prohibited to sell, use or distribute those products. FAQ’s How much is the fee for issuing a permit to import medicines for exhibitions? Application fee: 100 dirhams. Medical Products Entry Permit Fee: 1000 dirhams. Should medical products imported for the purpose of exhibitions be re-exported? Yes. Service completion duration 1 Working day Service fees Application fee: AED100 Entry Permit fee for medical products: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website:
day Service fees Application fee: AED100 Entry Permit fee for medical products: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart application Service locations MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart application Support Technical support: import.export@mohap.gov.ae IT support: Applications.support@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Global pharmaceutical factories Local pharmaceutical factories Scientific Offices Drug stores Companies wishing to display their products at exhibitions Resources EXH_UserManualMedcialDeviceCumMediciine Infographic - Issue of Permit to Import Medicines for Exhibitions - PDF 396KB Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Clearance, Import and Export Permits Service Code 110-02-002-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business - Government to Government Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Commercial licensing from Departments Of Economy for
- Government to Government Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Commercial licensing from Departments Of Economy for the entity. Import permit from the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation (FANR) for radiation devices. Inspection before customs release of shipments and before distribution locally in the market (Department of Control, Audit and Inspection - MOHAP) for all medical products. Service Bundle Not included in any service bundle Number of Transactions 105 Notes The service is limited as follows: Permission is valid for two months, and is only valid for viewing within exhibitions / events The Medical products /medicines will be re-exported abroad as soon as the exhibition/event is completed Required Documents A letter from the exhibition management containing the name of the company participating in the exhibition. An undertaking from the importer to re-export the products after the exhibition and not to sell them. Invoice for products from the factory
from the importer to re-export the products after the exhibition and not to sell them. Invoice for products from the factory (manufacturer) or authorized distributor (a relationship letter from the manufacturer is required). Information or catalog of products to be imported. Quality certificates from the product manufacturer (EC & ISO or FDA Certificate). The commercial license of the intermediary company / importer. Air Way Bill or Bill Of Lading (shipment must be refrigerated if shipped by sea).
Application to Change the Location of a Pharmaceutical Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Application to move the location of a pharmaceutic... About the Service This service allows customers to apply to change the registered location of a pharmaceutical facility. Service Process 1 Login to the facility's account on MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit the application and pay the fee. 3 An initial inspection will be conducted by the ministry's team. 4 An initial approval and no objection certificate will be issued to the relevant government entities (such as the municipality and the economic department). 5 The customer must then submit the remaining documents for final approval. 6 The staff concerned will conduct a final site inspection and ensure that it complies with the specifications. 7 The customer must pay the final fee and obtain the
final site inspection and ensure that it complies with the specifications. 7 The customer must pay the final fee and obtain the license. Conditions & Requirements The facility's license must be valid Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Application to move the location of a pharmaceutical facility: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies Warehouses Manufacturers of medicines and medical devices Marketing Offices Warehouses for re-export Resources Pharmaceutial Licensing UserManual - Applicant MoH Ministerial Decree 60-2013 regulating Medical Stores - Available in Arabic MOHAP Misiterial Decree 1110-2016 about the Scientific offices - Available in Arabic Infographic - Application to Change the Location of a Pharmaceutical Facility -
the Scientific offices - Available in Arabic Infographic - Application to Change the Location of a Pharmaceutical Facility - PDF 421KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-020-025 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 1434 Number of Transactions 120 Notes None Required Documents Initial approval: Affection plan attested by the municipality Establishment request letter Location photos Final approval: A copy of the establishment's lease agreement A copy of the establishment's trade license
Changing the Licensed Ownership of Private Medical Facilities Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Approval of the application: 2 working days Final license f... View more Service fees Application fees: AED100 Final License fees for new owner (as per the type ... About the Service This service allows the transfer of the ownership of medical facilities and receipt of licenses under the names of new owners. Such facilities include public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit the application and pay the application fee and fines, if any. 3 A no objection certificate will be issued to obtain the required approvals and licenses from other government
fines, if any. 3 A no objection certificate will be issued to obtain the required approvals and licenses from other government authorities (after obtaining security approvals). 4 Attach the required documents and pay the fee to change the name of the owner. 5 The final approval and the new license with the name of the new owner will be issued. Conditions & Requirements The facility must have been open and practising its commercial activity with a valid license for more than 6 months. The new owner must obtain a security clearance. Service completion duration Approval of the application: 2 working days Final license for the new owner: 2 working days Service fees Application fees: AED100 Final License fees for new owner (as per the type of facility): General Clinic/Rehabilitation Center/Home Health Center: AED 5000 Specialist Clinic/Medical Diagnosis Center/Emergency Center: AED 6000 Multi-Specialty Clinic: AED 12000 to AED 18000. Fertility Center/Convalescent Home/One-Day Surgeries
Center: AED 6000 Multi-Specialty Clinic: AED 12000 to AED 18000. Fertility Center/Convalescent Home/One-Day Surgeries Hospital: AED 20000 Hospital (1 to 50 beds): AED 20000 Hospital (50 to 100 beds): AED 30000 Hospital (100+ beds): AED 40000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources User Manual 20_Changing the Licensed Ownership of Private Medical Facilities Infographic - Changing the Licensed Ownership of Private Medical Facilities - PDF 403KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-047 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to
Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-047 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Departments of Economic Development: Issue Trade License Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 164 Notes None Required Documents Initial approval: Application or letter of request to change the licensed ownership Security character reference form for the new owner National ID card Last approved trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development List of partners A copy of the facility's license issued by MOHAP Final approval: Assignment contract attested by a notary or the assignment document from the Department of Economic Development A copy of the trade license with new owner's details The request letter from the owner
Issue of Permit to Import Medicines from a Local Agent Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration For initial import applications: 3 working days For shipment clearance ... View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Shipment clearance issuance fee: 1% of the invoice... About the Service This service allows obtaining a permit to import medicinal products, narcotic drugs, controlled or semi-controlled drugs, or pharmaceutical preparations for the local agent holding a valid medical store license issued by the Ministry of Health and Prevention. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit an initial import permit application before shipping from the country of origin, and pay the application fees 3 If the requirements and conditions are met, the initial import permit application will be approved with sixty days validity, during which the shipment from the country of origin can be prepared 4 In completion of the second stage,
sixty days validity, during which the shipment from the country of origin can be prepared 4 In completion of the second stage, the applicant submits a shipment clearance application - upon obtaining the Air Way Bill (Air) / Bill of Lading (Sea) / Truck Way Bill (Consignment Note) (Road) - and pays the due fees 5 In the event that the requirements and conditions are met, the approval is obtained electronically and the permission is printed from the electronic system. The permit is valid for sixty days from the date of its issuance and is conditional on the approval of the Ministry’s inspectors for customs clearance then the inspection for the release to loacl market Conditions & Requirements Obtaining marketing authorization approval from the Ministry of Health and Prevention. Products may only be imported by the local agent mentioned in the product’s marketing authorization approval. One commercial invoice must be attached to each initial import permit application. It is allowed to
authorization approval. One commercial invoice must be attached to each initial import permit application. It is allowed to include more than one initial import permit application, under the shipment clearance application, provided that they are all under the same bill of lading, air waybill, or truck waybill (consignment note). The shipment must contain products that are under the purview of the Ministry of Health and Prevention. Obtaining electronic shipment clearance permits. Inspection at the customs port by MOHAP inspectors. Inspection to release the shipment for distribution in the local market. FAQ’s How to know the pharmaceutical or therapeutic product or alternative that has obtained marketing approval in the country? Through the link below: - https://www.mohap.gov.ae/ar/services/Pages/drug-directory.aspx - In the event that a search result does not appear in the above link, please send the inquiry to the Import and Export Regulation Department through the e-mail:
does not appear in the above link, please send the inquiry to the Import and Export Regulation Department through the e-mail: Import.export@mohap.gov.ae How can I obtain the authorization of the Department for Regulating Controlled Substances and Products for Narcotic Drugs or Controlled or semi-controlled Products? Through the link below: https://smartforms.moh.gov.ae/DEI How can I apply for a batch release certificate (in case the product is a biological derivative and vaccine - issued by the Ministry of Health and Community Protection according to the batch number)? Apply through the link below: https://smartforms.moh.gov.ae/DEI How can I issue an import permit from the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation (mandatory for radioactive products and materials)? Through the website link below: https://www.fanr.gov.ae/ar/Pages/default.aspx How can I inquire about how to obtain marketing approval for the product? Communicate with the Medical Products Regulatory Department through
about how to obtain marketing approval for the product? Communicate with the Medical Products Regulatory Department through e-mail DrugReg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Service completion duration For initial import applications: 3 working days For shipment clearance applications: 2 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Shipment clearance issuance fee: 1% of the invoice value for the CIF price, not less than 200 dirhams per invoice Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App MOHAP offices at Customs Ports: Only to release the shipment directly to the importing medical store after printing the electronic shipment clearance permit and presenting the documents related to conformity to the Ministry’s inspectors, and before distribution in the local market. Service locations MoHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MoHAP SmartApp Support Information Technology: mohap.appsupport@mohap.gov.ae Import & export regulation section: import.export@mohap.gov.ae Call Center:
Technology: mohap.appsupport@mohap.gov.ae Import & export regulation section: import.export@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical store with a valid license issued from the Ministry of Health and Prevention Resources MOHAP - ImportExport-AgentManual V4 Minister Resolution No.22 of 2022 Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Clearance, Import and Export Permits Service Code 110-02-004-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Licenses, for all medical products. BRC (Batch Release Certificate) for biological products. Authorization to import narcotic, controlled or semi-controlled drugs, for narcotic products, controlled and semi-controlled substances. Import permit from the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation (FANR), for radioactive products, materials and radiation devices. Inspection before customs release of shipments and before
(FANR), for radioactive products, materials and radiation devices. Inspection before customs release of shipments and before distribution locally in the market for all medical products. Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages. Number of Users 422 Notes None Required Documents The first stage: Initial approval for import: The submission is made through the electronic system of import to obtain the initial approval for import before starting to ship from the country of origin, and it requires attaching the following documents: The invoice (Commercial Invoice or Invoice) issued by marketing authorization holder, including the country of origin, production and expiry dates for each batch, and the remaining shelf life of the product must not be less than two-thirds of the total shelf life. Minor Variation Certificate (MVC) - if any Import authorization from the Regulation of Controlled Substances and Products section- for Narcotic, Controlled or semi-controlled
authorization from the Regulation of Controlled Substances and Products section- for Narcotic, Controlled or semi-controlled Drugs. Batch Release Certificate (BRC) - if the product is a biological derivative and vaccine - issued by the Ministry of Health & Prevention for each batch. Import permit from the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation - mandatory for radioactive products and materials European Directorate for Quality of Medicines and Healthcare (EDQM) Certificate of Suitability (if the product contains gelatin from an animal source) In case of importing from the designated free zones in the country, the following must be provided: A valid MOHAP Marketing Office License of MAH (Marketing Authorization Holder) A valid certificate of Good Storage and Distribution Practice (GSDP) issued by MOHAP (Ministry Of Health & Prevention) to the MAH (Marketing Authorization Holder) The second Stage: Shipment Clearance Permission: The application is submitted when the freight bill is
Authorization Holder) The second Stage: Shipment Clearance Permission: The application is submitted when the freight bill is issued, and it requires attaching the following documents: Air Way Bill (Air) / Bill of Lading (Sea) / Truck Way Bill (Consignment Note) (Road), noting the necessity of shipping in temperature controlled containers, while adhering to the Ministerial decree No. 22 of 2022. The packing list must include the total weight and the number of packages. Original Certificates of Analysis (C.O.A) for all imported batches and must include production and expiry dates and be issued by the batch releaser (to be viewed upon request from MOHAP inspectors).
Cancel a Health Facility License Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Approval for the application: 2 working days View more Service fees AED100 Any fines will be calculated at 25% for every 30 d... About the Service This service allows medical facilities to cancel their current licenses. Such facilities include public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Attach the required documents and pay the cancellation fee, in addition to any fines. 3 Your application will be reviewed. 4 The approval for cancellation will be issued, and the facility will be informed of the cancellation via email. Conditions & Requirements Medical staff licenses must be cancelled or
facility will be informed of the cancellation via email. Conditions & Requirements Medical staff licenses must be cancelled or transferred prior to the cancellation of the facility. Service completion duration Approval for the application: 2 working days Service fees AED100 Any fines will be calculated at 25% for every 30 days from the base fee of the facility up to 6 months Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Infographic - Cancel a Health Facility License - PDF 374KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code
and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-046 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services MOHAP: Cancellation of medical profession practicing license, including doctors, technicians, and nurses Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 50 Notes None Required Documents Copy of the facility's license issued by MOHAP A letter addressed by the UAE owner requesting the cancellation of the facility's license Trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development
Re-license (Re-register) a Health Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Approval of the license application: 5 working days Verifica... View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Initial inspection fee: About the Service This service allows medical facilities to submit applications for re-licensing if the license has been cancelled by the owner or suspended by MOHAP. Such facilities include public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit an application for the facility's re-licensing and pay the application fee. 3 Submit an application for initial inspection and pay the fee. 4 Once the initial inspection is approved, the initial licensing
Submit an application for initial inspection and pay the fee. 4 Once the initial inspection is approved, the initial licensing approval and a no objection certificate will be issued for government entities (such as economic departments and municipalities). 5 Proceed with finalizing the requirements and licenses from other government departments, such as Civil Defense. 6 Apply for licensing of medical staff (doctors, technicians, nurses). 7 Once all the requirements are met, pay the fee, apply for final approval, and attach the required documents. 8 Once approved, the license will be issued through the e-system and sent via email. It can also be downloaded from the website. Conditions & Requirements To apply for this service, the facility's license must be cancelled. Service completion duration Approval of the license application: 5 working days Verification of the facility plan: 5 to 7 working days Final inspection: 7 to 10 working days Final licensing: 5 working days Service fees
of the facility plan: 5 to 7 working days Final inspection: 7 to 10 working days Final licensing: 5 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Initial inspection fee: Hospital, convalescent home, fertility center, emergency center, home medical center: AED 2000 General clinic, specialist clinic, medical center, medical diagnosis center, rehabilitation center: AED 1000 Final License fees: General clinic, rehabilitation center, home health center: AED 5,000 Specialist clinic, medical diagnosis center, emergency center: AED 6,000 Multi-specialty clinic: AED 12000 to AED 18000 maximum Fertility center, convalescent home, one-day surgeries hospital: AED 20000 Hospital (1 to 50 beds): AED 20000 Hospital (50 to 100 beds): AED 30000 Hospital (100+ beds): AED 40000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call
locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources Infographic - Re-license Re-register a Health Facility - PDF 433KB eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 User Manual- Engineering Department Initial site inspection checklist- Medical facility Initial site inspection checklist- School clinics Initial site inspection checklist- Nursery clinics Initial site inspection checklist- Eye testing facility Initial site inspection checklist- Homecare Final inspection checklist-Medical facility Hospital Regulation One day surgery Center Regulation Outpatient Regulation Rehabilitation center Regulation Home care Services regulations - Available in Arabic Oncology center Regulation Renal Dialysis Center Regulations IVF Center Regulation Cardiac Catheterization Unit Regulation Clinical
center Regulation Renal Dialysis Center Regulations IVF Center Regulation Cardiac Catheterization Unit Regulation Clinical Laboratory Regulation Dental Laboratory Regulation Diagnostic Imaging Regulation Mobile Transportable And Reloadable Regulation Water Birthing Unit Regulation School Clinic Regulation Nursery Clinic checklist - Available in Arabic Nutrition Center Regulation - Available in Arabic Standard Submission From PDF Standard Submission Form DWG Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-048 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Departments of Economic Development: Issuing the Trade License MOHAP: Medical Profession Practicing License Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation: Issuance of a Radiation Protection License Civil Defense: Issuance of a Certificate of Civil Defense
for Nuclear Regulation: Issuance of a Radiation Protection License Civil Defense: Issuance of a Certificate of Civil Defense Authorities concerned in each emirate: Medical Waste Disposal Agreement Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 61 Notes None  Required Documents Initial site plan approved by MOHAP engineers Latest trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development Letter of application from the owner Latest license issued by MOHAP List of partners' names Security character reference forms Final site plan approved by MOHAP engineers Copy of the facility's license issued by the Department of Economic Development Preventive safety agreement issued by the Civil Defense Department Copy of the agreement signed with the municipality or a company for the disposal of medical waste List of medical equipment, with names and their respective functions Price list of services provided by the medical facility List of licensed doctors and
with names and their respective functions Price list of services provided by the medical facility List of licensed doctors and technicians Internal regulations of the medical facility License of radiation protection, for those facilities that include a radiation section Approval of the board of the medical facility
Appealing Against Health Advertisement Violation Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration One working day View more Service fees Free About the Service This service enables companies and corporations to appeal against previously recorded violations of the conditions and requirements of health advertisements. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS, and submit the application. 2 The Department of Empowerment & Healthcare Compliance will review and verify the appeal. 3 If the appeal is rejected, the applicant will be notified with feedback. 4 If the appeal is accepted, the violation will be modified accordingly. Conditions & Requirements Documents validating the appeal must be submitted. Service completion duration One working day Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website Service Centers Service locations Mohab Website Service Provision Centers (MOHAP Customer Happiness Center) Support Tawasol@moh.gov.ae Payment channels E-
Mohab Website Service Provision Centers (MOHAP Customer Happiness Center) Support Tawasol@moh.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Companies and investors in the health, health products and pharmaceutical sectors Resources 07_Appealing Against Health Advertisement Violation Department name Empowerment & Health Compliance Sector name Health Regulation Main service Control and Inspection Service Code 110-07-005-005 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Required Documents Identification documents (the violation may be cleared once the documents have been submitted).
Changing the Technical Director of a Private Medical Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 2 working days View more Service fees AED 1,000 About the Service This service allows medical facilities to submit their applications to change or replace their technical directors and obtain the necessary approvals from the MOHAP. Such facilities include public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit the application, attach the necessary documents and pay the service fee. 3 Once the application is complete and approved, the license will be modified with the name of the new technical director. 4 The updated license will be sent to the customer by email. It
will be modified with the name of the new technical director. 4 The updated license will be sent to the customer by email. It can also be downloaded from the website. Conditions & Requirements The health facility is managed by the following, according to the classification of the facility: Hospitals: A doctor licensed by the health authority to practice the medical profession in one of the specialties included in the activity of the health facility. An administrator who holds a university qualification in hospital management or healthcare management from a recognized university in the country. Outpatient healthcare facilities, health diagnostic centers, and specialized units: A doctor licensed by the health authority to practice the medical profession in one of the specialties included in the activity of the health facility. A specialized professional who holds an accredited academic qualification in the same field of activity of the establishment. Traditional, complementary,
who holds an accredited academic qualification in the same field of activity of the establishment. Traditional, complementary, alternative medicine centers, and allied health services centers: A specialized professional with an accredited academic qualification in the same field of specialization of the center. Long-term care homes: A specialized professional with an accredited academic qualification in the same field of nursing home specialization. The health authority may determine any other requirements, experiences, or qualifications necessary for those who manage the private health facility. The technical director may manage more than one private health facility in accordance with the controls and conditions specified by the health authority. Service completion duration 2 working days Service fees AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email:
MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 Infographic - Changing the Technical Director of a Private Medical Facility. - PDF 372KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-051 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 136 Notes None Required Documents Copy of the facility's license issued by MOHAP Letter from the owner of the medical facility requesting to
Required Documents Copy of the facility's license issued by MOHAP Letter from the owner of the medical facility requesting to change the technical director of the facility Official documents of the new technical director
Adding a Partner in a Private Medical Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees AED1,000 About the Service This service allows addition of a new partner in health facilities, including public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the facility's account on the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit the application and pay the fees. 3 Once the application is approved, the new partner will be added to the partners list, and the license data will be updated. 4 License will be issued through the e-system without any modification. Conditions & Requirements The partner's name must be mentioned in the Trade License Service completion duration 3 working days
Conditions & Requirements The partner's name must be mentioned in the Trade License Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees AED1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Call Center: 80011111   Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities (hospital, convalescent home, fertility center, emergency center, home medical center, general and specialized clinics, multi-specialty center, medical diagnosis center, rehabilitation center, one-day surgery center.) Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 03_Adding a Partner in a Private Medical Facility Infographic - Adding a Partner in a Private Medical Facility - PDF 371KB Department name Licensing and
Private Medical Facility Infographic - Adding a Partner in a Private Medical Facility - PDF 371KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-052 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Departments of Economic Development : Issuance of a trade license for the facility Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles. Number of Transactions 44 Notes None  Required Documents A copy of the facility's license issued by MOHAP. A letter from the owner requesting the addition of a partner in the facility. A copy of the Trade License issued by the Department of Economic Development. A list of partners' names.
Changing the type of Medical activity of Private Health Facilities Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Approval of the license application: 1 working day - Initial inspectio... View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Initial inspection fee: About the Service This service allows health facilities to obtain the necessary license to change their activities in providing health and treatment services. Such facilities include public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit an application for the service and pay the fee. 3 Submit an application for initial inspection. 4 Once the initial inspection is approved, submit an application to study the
3 Submit an application for initial inspection. 4 Once the initial inspection is approved, submit an application to study the architectural plan and pay the fee. 5 Once the site plan is approved, the initial approval for inspection will be issued. 6 Proceed with obtaining license requirements from different government departments, such as Civil Defense. 7 Apply for licensing of medical staff (doctors, technicians, nurses). 8 Apply for final inspection. 9 Once the final inspection is approved, pay the final licensing fee and submit the final approval request with the remaining documents. 10 License will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded from the website. Conditions & Requirements The facility must have been open and practicing its commercial activity with a valid license for more than 6 months. The number of doctors and technicians employed must be consistent with the new facility type. Service completion duration Approval of the license
and technicians employed must be consistent with the new facility type. Service completion duration Approval of the license application: 1 working day - Initial inspection: 2 working days Verification of the facility plan: 5 to 7 working days Final inspection: 7 to 10 working days Final licensing: 2 working days Engineering team approval: Initial inspection: 2 working days Verification of the facility plan: 5 to 7 working days Final inspection: 7 to10 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Initial inspection fee: Hospital, convalescent home, fertility center, emergency center, home medical center: AED 2,000 General clinic, specialist clinic, medical center, medical diagnosis center, rehabilitation center: AED 1,000 Verifying site plan fee: Hospital, convalescent home, fertility center, emergency center, home medical center: AED 2,000 General clinic, specialist clinic, medical center, medical diagnosis center, rehabilitation center: AED 1,000 Re-verifying architectural site
specialist clinic, medical center, medical diagnosis center, rehabilitation center: AED 1,000 Re-verifying architectural site plan fee: Hospital, convalescent home, fertility center, emergency center, home medical center: AED 1,000 General clinic, specialist clinic, medical center, medical diagnosis center, rehabilitation center: AED 500 Final license fee: General clinic, rehabilitation center, home health center: AED 5,000 Specialist clinic, medical diagnosis center, emergency center: AED 6,000 Multi-specialty clinic: AED 12,000 to 18,000 maximum Fertility center, convalescent home, one-day surgery hospital: AED 20,000 Hospital (1 to 50 beds): AED 20,000 Hospital (50 to 100 beds): AED 30,000 Hospital (100+ beds): AED 40,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E-
MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources Infographic - Changing the type of Medical activity of Private Health Facilities - PDF 500KB User manual Medical Licensing system Standard Submission form PDF Standard Submission form DWG User Manual- Engineering Department Initial site inspection Checklist- Medical facility Initial site inspection Checklist- School clinics Initial site inspection Checklist- Nursery clinics Initial site inspection Checklist- Eye testing facility Initial site inspection Checklist- Homecare Final site inspection Checklist - Medical Facility Hospital Regulations One Day Surgery Center Regulation Outpatient Care Facilities Rehabilitation Center Regulations Home care services Regulations - Available in Arabic Oncology Center Regulations Renal Dialysis Center Regulations IVF Center
Home care services Regulations - Available in Arabic Oncology Center Regulations Renal Dialysis Center Regulations IVF Center Regulation Cardiac Catheterization Unit Regulations Clinical Laboratory Regulations Dental Laboratory Regulation Diagnostic Imaging Regulation Mobile Transportable and Relocatable Unites Regulation Water birthing Unit Regulation School clinic regulation Nursery Clinic checklist - Available in Arabic Nutrition Center Regulation - Available In Arabic Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-050 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Departments of Economic Development: Reserving the Trade License MOHAP: Medical Profession Practicing License Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation: Issuance of a Radiation Protection License Civil Defense: Issuance of a Certificate of
Authority for Nuclear Regulation: Issuance of a Radiation Protection License Civil Defense: Issuance of a Certificate of Civil Defense Authorities concerned in each emirate: Medical Waste Disposal Agreement Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 26 Notes None Required Documents Initial approval for inspection: Request letter Location photo Crock plan for approval Type change Initial approval: Request letter A copy of the site plan approved by MOHAP engineers Latest trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development Final inspection: Crock plan approved initially approved by MOHAP engineers Crock plan to be approved finally by MOHAP engineers Final License Approval: Final site plan approved by MOHAP engineers Latest trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development, specifying the type of the new facility Copy of the preventive safety agreement issued by the Civil Defense Copy of the agreement with the municipality for
facility Copy of the preventive safety agreement issued by the Civil Defense Copy of the agreement with the municipality for the disposal of medical waste Licenses of medical staff License of radiation protection (issued by the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation), if the facility includes a radiation section List of employees issued by Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation
Classification of a product Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 10 working days View more Service fees Classification of product Fees: AED 500 About the Service This service allows the classification of products of all types and forms based on Presentation /Composition / Use and Design. Requirements may vary based on the nature of the product, risk class and regulatory status. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Fill the product details 3 Attach the required documents 4 Make payment & submit the application Conditions & Requirements The purpose of the Classification letter is to inform you about the laws governing your products within UAE. The classification letter identifies the product classification if the product needs or does not need registration by MOHAP. If it is determined that it needs registration by MOHAP, it must be registered in MOHAP according to the class identified in the classification letter.
it needs registration by MOHAP, it must be registered in MOHAP according to the class identified in the classification letter. Classification is available for all types of Companies and for Individuals. For more information regarding the conditions and requirements, please check the resources. FAQ’s How do I select the appropriate account for product classification through the submission process? Agent (link with your existing account)- If you have a valid drug store license issued by UAE MOHAP licensing department then select this account type. Other: Other authority licensed establishments, Examples: Trade license, Free zone license etc. (Establishment name and city should be similar to the Trade license/ Free zone license etc.). Individuals: if you don’t have any establishment license in UAE (Applicant Name should be similar to the Emirates ID/ Passport). How do I modify the account details? Fill or correct the user details: - go to top left corner of the screen - click on
How do I modify the account details? Fill or correct the user details: - go to top left corner of the screen - click on ‘account’ - settings- account details- fill/ correct information & press save button. How do I follow my application status? Check the dashboard frequently for comments from MOHAP Officers. Service completion duration 10 working days Service fees Classification of product Fees: AED 500 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohap Website MOHAP Smart Application Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Pharmaceutical manufacturers Local facilities Individuals Resources Infographic - Classification of a product - PDF 372KB User Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Help Manual Classification of a Product- Guidelines Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-008-000
name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-008-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Related Services This service is not linked with other service Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages Number of Users 745 Number of Transactions 5498 Notes Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents Emirates ID or the applicant’s passport or trade license or drug store license (depends on the user type) (mandatory) Certificate from the regulatory authority of the country-of-origin, related to the submitted product (copy of the CPP/free sale certificate/CFG/CE/ISO) along with English or Arabic translation (mandatory) [CPP: Certificate of pharmaceutical product; CFG: Certificate to foreign government; CE: European conformity; ISO: International organization for standardization with submitted product name] A photo of the product
European conformity; ISO: International organization for standardization with submitted product name] A photo of the product (mandatory) Leaflet/product information in English/Arabic (mandatory) Product catalogue for medical devices Inner pack label with clear and readable product name and information (artwork) Outer pack label with clear and readable product name and information (artwork) Composition Certificate (Active/ Inactive ingredient list with each ingredients quantity)/ MSDS (applicable for product that have Medicinal/Chemical Ingredients in it) MSDS: Material Safety Data Sheet. Registration and Marketing Status in other Countries (Copy of the Certificates along with English or Arabic Translation from Reference Countries approved by UAE MOHAP (Reference Country List Attached Above) / CE Certificate from EU approved Notified Body for the submitted Product) [CE: European Conformity. EU: European Union.] Product Sample in their Final Original Pack (Upon Request) MOHAP Quality
[CE: European Conformity. EU: European Union.] Product Sample in their Final Original Pack (Upon Request) MOHAP Quality Control Lab Analysis Report (Upon Request) Letter of Authorisation from Marketing Authorization Holder (Upon Request)
Licensing of a Pharmaceutical Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Categories: Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-exp... View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Fees for initial inspection, according to the typ... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for a license to establish a pharmaceutical facility to sell pharmaceutical products and medical supplies, to register, import and distribute pharmaceutical products and medical supplies, to represent companies, pharmaceutical factories and international medical supplies registered in the country, to export and re-export pharmaceutical products and medical supplies, or to manufacture pharmaceutical products and medical supplies. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Apply to obtain a pre-licensing approval for a pharmaceutical facility. 3 An approval will be issued for the local citizen
2 Apply to obtain a pre-licensing approval for a pharmaceutical facility. 3 An approval will be issued for the local citizen owner. 4 Submit the request for initial inspection and pay the inspection fee. 5 Once the initial inspection is approved, an initial approval request must be submitted by the applicant. 6 Proceeded with finalizing the license requirements from relevant government departments, such as Civil Defense. 7 Apply for staff licensing (pharmacists). 8 Apply for final inspection and pay the fee. 9 Once the final inspection is approved, submit the final approval request with the remaining documents. 10 If the application is approved, the license fee will be paid. 11 The license is issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website. Conditions & Requirements For pharmacies, warehouses, and scientific offices, the owner must be a UAE national as per the Companies Law. The client must not own more than two pharmacies in the UAE. The following
must be a UAE national as per the Companies Law. The client must not own more than two pharmacies in the UAE. The following technical and health conditions must be met in pharmaceutical facilities: n case of applying for a pharmacy license, the applicant should follow Ministerial Circular No. (932) Regarding the Health and Technical Conditions that Must be Met in Private Pharmacies. Click the link to view the circular: https://mohap.gov.ae/app_content/legislations/php-law-ar-55/mobile/index.html In case of applying for a medical warehouse license, the applicant should follow Circular No. (90) of 2021 of Federal Law No. (8) of 2019 on Medical Products the Profession of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Facilities. FAQ’s Is it possible for a non-citizen to own a pharmaceutical establishment? Yes, provided that the local authority to which the facility belongs issues an approval letter regarding the percentage of foreign ownership. Who should be licenced at the manufacturing facility? To
an approval letter regarding the percentage of foreign ownership. Who should be licenced at the manufacturing facility? To obtain the final approval for the license, the facility should appoint a licensed experienced pharmacist in the following roles: Technical manager Quality manager Production manager Service completion duration Categories: Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: 3 working days Manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical device: Handling the first licensing step (primary approval): Within 5 working days from the application receiving date Assigning inspection team to audit the compliance with good manufacturing practice (GMP): 10 days from the date of receiving the request Issuance of the certificate of compliance with current good manufacturing practice (c-GMP): 5 working days from the date of generation of the visit report. It is recommended to issue a GMP certificate. Issuing MOHAP facility license upon completing the
of the visit report. It is recommended to issue a GMP certificate. Issuing MOHAP facility license upon completing the required fees\documents: 3 working days from the date of receiving the last requirement Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Fees for initial inspection, according to the type of facility: Warehouses, pharmacies and marketing offices: AED 1,000 per inspection Final inspection fees, according to the type of facility: Warehouses, pharmacies and marketing offices: AED 1,000 per inspection Final license fees, according to the type of facility: Pharmacies and warehouses: AED 7500 Marketing offices: AED 10,000 Warehouses for export: AED 10,000 Manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical device: Application fee: AED 100 Final inspection fee: AED 3000 per inspection Approval fee for architectural plans and drawings: AED 2000 Fees for final licensing of manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical device: AED 50000 Service channels MOHAP Website:
final licensing of manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical device: AED 50000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies Warehouses Manufacturers of medicines and medical devices Marketing Offices Warehouses for re-export Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-020-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: Manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical device: Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 213 Number of Transactions 619 Notes Manufacturing facilities of
This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 213 Number of Transactions 619 Notes Manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical device: This service is linked to various services from other government agencies, including: Ministry of Interior - Obtaining the Approval for the Introductory Statement of the Subjected Facility's Owner(s) Departments of Economic Development - Registration of Trade Name Ministry of Health and Prevention - Licensing of Medical Professionals and Pharmacists Departments of Economic Development - Issuance of Trade License Civil Defense - Issuance of Civil Defense Certificate MOCCAE- Issuing the Environmental Compliance Certificate Required Documents Documents required for pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: Initial approval (owner profile check & primary inspection): A copy of owner's passport A copy of owner's family book A copy of valid ID card A recent color photograph An introductory statement filled
passport A copy of owner's family book A copy of valid ID card A recent color photograph An introductory statement filled out exclusively by the owner and the responsible pharmacist (the statement is available at any Customer Happiness Center) The site’s architectural drawing approved by an engineering consultant office Registration in Tatmeen: Location photos License initial approval: Affection plan attested by the municipality A copy of the establishment lease agreement A copy of the trade name Final inspection and final approval of the license: A copy of trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development A copy of license of the pharmacist responsible for pharmaceutical facility A copy of a certificate of conformity with preventive safety requirements issued by the civil defense A list of partners Additional documents for marketing offices: Documents required for initial approval: A copy of the marketing office’s memorandum and articles of association A document
Documents required for initial approval: A copy of the marketing office’s memorandum and articles of association A document representing the marketing authorization holder registered with the ministry (the licensed applicant must be a representative of a medical product company registered with MOHAP) A copy of the project’s feasibility study The partnership contract, which includes the owners' right to the capital in accordance with the UAE Companies’ Law Initial inspection report of the marketing office Documents required for final approval: Approval regarding the pharmacist responsible for the marketing office Final inspection report 1. Initial approval of the manufacturing facility A copy of the memorandum and articles of association A copy of the project's feasibility study The partnership contract, which includes the owners' right to the capital in accordance with the UAE Companies’ Law A copy of the partners’ passports A copy of the family book (for UAE national partner(s)) A
with the UAE Companies’ Law A copy of the partners’ passports A copy of the family book (for UAE national partner(s)) A copy of the national ID card of each partner Photos for each partner This step also includes security approval of each partner separately, and this will be done by filling an 'introductory statement' and attaching a copy of the passport, the family book, the ID card and photos. Note: The requirements are submitted to the Ministry of Health and Prevention and the initial approval is issued by the Pharmaceutical Licensing Committee after completing security clearances and document submission. The approval granted is valid for 6 months and can be extended upon request. 2. Manufacturing facility construction and preparation After obtaining the initial approval in step (1), the manufacturing facility must submit detailed engineering drawings of the facility - including the drawings that demonstrate material flow, personnel flow and other technical requirements for good
the facility - including the drawings that demonstrate material flow, personnel flow and other technical requirements for good manufacturing practices (GMP) - and obtain approval of drawings from the technical committee concerned within the drug department prior to construction. After obtaining the technical committee’s approval on the drawings, this step also includes submission of the following documents: After submitting the above-mentioned required documents, the manufacturing facility is ready for inspection (GMP certification inspection) through coordination with the drug department to set an appointment for inspection. 3. Final licensing of the manufacturing facility and good manufacturing practice certificate issuance After obtaining approval for the construction and preparation stage in step (2), the manufacturing facility must appoint technicians and issue licenses for technicians working in the following jobs: production manager / quality assurance manager / quality control
issue licenses for technicians working in the following jobs: production manager / quality assurance manager / quality control manager. Note: Pharmacists' license may be replaced by a biomedical engineer license if the manufacturing facility is limited to medical equipment production only. To obtain the final approval, the following documents must be submitted: After submitting all documents, the manufacturing facility becomes eligible for the final inspection. After final inspection by the inspection team and submission of documents, the final license is issued to the facility.
Changing the Location of a Private Medical Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Approval of the application: 1 working day Final licensing:<... View more Service fees Application fee for transferring the location of a... Service fees for transferring the location of a fa... About the Service This service allows the transfer of licensed private medical facilities from one location to another, in which they can receive new licenses. Such facilities include public and specialized clinics, medical centers, diagnostic and rehabilitation centers, emergency and home health centers, fertility and recuperation centers, one-day surgery centers and hospitals, and hospitals of different sizes and specialties. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit an application to change the facility's location, and pay the fee. 3 Submit an application for initial inspection and pay the fee. 4 Once the
to change the facility's location, and pay the fee. 3 Submit an application for initial inspection and pay the fee. 4 Once the initial inspection is approved, submit an application to study the architectural plan and pay the fee. 5 Once the site plan is approved, the initial approval for inspection and no objection certificate from the government authorities concerned (such as economic departments and municipalities) will be issued. 6 Proceed with finalizing the license requirements of relevant government departments, such as Civil Defense. 7 Submit an application for final inspection. 8 Once final inspection is approved, pay the final fee and submit the remaining documents. 9 License will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website. Conditions & Requirements License must be valid for more than 6 months. Relocation of medical facilities may only be done after obtaining the final approval of the site plan from MOHAP engineers. Service
of medical facilities may only be done after obtaining the final approval of the site plan from MOHAP engineers. Service completion duration Approval of the application: 1 working day Final licensing: 2 working days Engineering team approval: Initial inspection: 2 working days Verification of the facility plan: 5 to 7 working days Final inspection: 7 to10 working days Service fees Application fee for transferring the location of a facility: AED 100 Service fees for transferring the location of a facility: AED 100 Initial Inspection fees: Hospital/Convalescent Home/Fertility Center/Emergency Center/Home Medical Center: AED 2,000 General Clinic/Specialist Clinic/Medical Center/Medical Diagnosis Center/Rehabilitation Center: AED 1,000 Verifying site plan fees: Hospital/Convalescent Home/Fertility Center/Emergency Center/Home Medical Center: AED 2,000 General Clinic/Specialist Clinic/Medical Center/Medical Diagnosis Center/Rehabilitation Center: AED 1,000 Re-verifying geographical site
Clinic/Medical Center/Medical Diagnosis Center/Rehabilitation Center: AED 1,000 Re-verifying geographical site plan fees: Hospital/Convalescent Home/Fertility Center/Emergency Center/Home Medical Center: AED 1,000 General Clinic/Specialist Clinic/Medical Center/Medical Diagnosis Center/Rehabilitation Center: AED 500 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the health sector who own different health facilities Resources Infographic - Changing the Location of a Private Medical Facility - PDF 423KB User manual Medical Licensing system User Manual- Engineering Department Initial site inspection checklist- Medical facility Initial site inspection checklist- School clinics Initial site inspection checklist- Nursery clinics Initial site
facility Initial site inspection checklist- School clinics Initial site inspection checklist- Nursery clinics Initial site inspection checklist- Eye testing facility Initial site inspection checklist- Homecare Final inspection checklist-Medical facility Hospital Regulation One day surgery Center Regulation Outpatient Regulation Rehabilitation center Regulation Home Care Service Regulations - Available in Arabic Oncology center Regulation Renal Dialysis Center Regulations IVF Center Regulation Cardiac Catheterization Unit Regulation Clinical Laboratory Regulation Dental Laboratory Regulation Diagnostic Imaging Regulation Mobile, Transportable And Reloadable Regulation Water Birthing Unit Regulation School Clinic Regulation Nursery Clinic checklist - Available in Arabic Nutrition Center Regulation - Available in Arabic Standard Submission Form PDF Standard Submission Form DWG Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment
Form DWG Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-021-045 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Departments of Economic Development: Issue Trade License Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 16 Notes None Required Documents Primary inspection: Letter requesting the medical facility's location change Latest trade license issued by the Department of Economic Development Latest license of the facility issued by MOHAP Site plan approved by MOHAP engineers Final inspection:Final approval: Establishment Croak Plan Initially Approved By MOHAP Engineer Establishment Croak Plan which should be Approved Finally By MOHAP Engineer Final approval: Establishment Croak Plan Finally Approved By MOHAP Engineer Economic Department License
Attestation of Medical Leaves and Reports Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Electronic applications: 2 working days.If the sick leave needs to be r... View more Service fees AED 50 About the Service This service allows the attestation of sick leaves and medical reports certificates issued by private or government health facilities, irrespective of duration, to be provided to the employers. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Fill in the required fields and attach the relevant documents and then submit the application 3 Pay the required fees after the verification is completed and receive the attested sick leave from Ministry of Health and Prevention Conditions & Requirements Sick leave issued by a private or government health facility in Sharjah or a northern emirates can be attested a the health facility where the treatment was carried out If the leave period is for five days or less, it can be attested
a the health facility where the treatment was carried out If the leave period is for five days or less, it can be attested electronically without the need for accreditation from a medical committee If the sick leave exceeds five days and extends for up to one month, it must be attested electronically, with fee payment, and then approved by the medical sub-committee in the emirate If the duration of the leave exceeds one month, it must be attested electronically, with fee payment, and then approved by the Higher Medical Committee of MOHAP The private medical facility must be licensed The period of time between the date of leave issuance by the medical establishment and the request for attestation from the Ministry must not exceed one month Sick leave issued by health institutions in Dubai and Abu Dhabi must first be approved by the relevant city's Health Authority and then submitted electronically through the MOHAP website Medical reports or sick leave issued by medical institutions
and then submitted electronically through the MOHAP website Medical reports or sick leave issued by medical institutions outside the UAE must be certified by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation; where customers require approval of such sick leave from MOHAP, they will be referred to the relevant medical committee for approval FAQ’s I have a 3-day sick leave issued by a private medical facility. Does it require a stamp by MOHAP? The certificates issued by the medical establishments using the MOHAP sick leaves system are certified and do not require further attestation Service completion duration Electronic applications: 2 working days.If the sick leave needs to be reviewed by the medical committee, the service will require additional 5 working days to get the approval of the medical committee Service fees AED 50 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP SmartApp Support Email:
Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP SmartApp Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Patients (of all age categories) Resources User Manual - Attestation of Medical Leaves and Reports - PDF 1540KB 14_Attestation of Medical Leaves and Reports.pdf Department name Customer Happiness Sector name Support Services Main service Sick leave and medical reports Service Code 110-10-019-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business - Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services MOHAP: Approval of Medical leaves and reports in case the duration of the leave is more than 5 days Sick Leaves issued by a medical facility in Dubai must be attested by the Dubai Health Authority Sick Leaves issued by a medical facility in Abu Dhabi must be attested by the Department of Health in Abu Dhabi Service Bundle This service is not linked
facility in Abu Dhabi must be attested by the Department of Health in Abu Dhabi Service Bundle This service is not linked with any bundles Number of Users 33816 Number of Transactions 259248 Required Documents Sick leave of 5 days or less: Original sick leave certificate Sick leave of more than 5 days: Sick leave certificate Medical report related to the leave Escort Leave: Attach proof of relationship Sick leave certificate Medical report
Renewal of a Pharmaceutical Facility License Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Final license fee for pharmacies and warehouses: A... About the Service This service allows applications for the renewal of expired pharmaceutical facility licenses to sell pharmaceutical products and medical supplies, to register, import and distribute pharmaceutical products and medical supplies. Service Process 1 Categories: Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for export purposes: Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. Submit the application, attach the necessary documents, and pay the fee. If the conditions are met, the fee is accepted, and the license is renewed. The license is issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded via the website and smart app. 2 Categories: Pharmaceutical factories and medical devices: The service is
also be downloaded via the website and smart app. 2 Categories: Pharmaceutical factories and medical devices: The service is provided through customer happiness centers. Conditions & Requirements The facility must be open and active. The responsible pharmacist must be on duty. Conditions for marketing office license renewal: The concerned party must submit the application to renew the marketing office license one month before the expiry date specified for the license, provided that the renewal is made for another new year starting from the expiry date of the previous marketing office license, after paying the fees required for renewal. The license of marketing offices must be renewed annually. In the event of non-renewal, the license will be cancelled months after the expiry date. MOHAP may, before renewing the license, visit the marketing office to verify the implementation of all health and technical conditions. Conditions of factory license renewal: The factory license is renewed
implementation of all health and technical conditions. Conditions of factory license renewal: The factory license is renewed annually, provided that the factory adheres to good manufacturing practices, which is ensured by the inspection team that visits the facility. An official request can be submitted to the competent department of the ministry to renew the good manufacturing practice certificates issued by the ministry two months before their expiry date. The factory license is allowed to be renewed on the specified date without linking it to the date of inspection visits. If the factory continues its activity after the expiry of its license without renewing it, legal measures will be taken against the factory in accordance with the legislation in force in this regard. All necessary corrective actions must be taken regarding the feedback that may be received from the inspection team regarding good manufacturing practice. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees
from the inspection team regarding good manufacturing practice. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Final license fee for pharmacies and warehouses: AED 7,500 Final license fee for manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical device: AED 25,000 Final license fee for marketing offices: AED 5,000 Warehouse renewal fee for re-export: AED 10,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Call Center : 80011111 Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies Warehouses Manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical device Marketing Offices Warehouses for re-export Resources MoH Ministerial Decree 60-2013 regulating Medical Stores - Available in Arabic - PDF 1326KB MOHAP Misiterial Decree 1110-2016 about the Scientific offices - Available in Arabic PDF 1832KB User Manual - Renewal of a
MOHAP Misiterial Decree 1110-2016 about the Scientific offices - Available in Arabic PDF 1832KB User Manual - Renewal of a Pharmaceutical Facility License - PDF 1330KB Infographic - Renewal of a Pharmaceutical Facility License - PDF 371KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Public Health Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-020-023 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services. Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles. Number of Users 96 Number of Transactions 2077 Notes None Required Documents Required documents: A copy of the pharmacist’s valid license. A copy of the valid commercial license and membership registration certificate. A copy of the valid annual rental contract. A copy of the facility’s civil defense certificate of fulfillment of fire prevention and fire fighting
annual rental contract. A copy of the facility’s civil defense certificate of fulfillment of fire prevention and fire fighting requirements. Additional documents that must be submitted to renew the marketing office: A copy of the fee payment receipt. An undertaking from the responsible pharmacist that the authorizations submitted to the marketing office by the factories and medical product companies he represents are valid. Additional documents that must be submitted to renew the manufacturing facilities of pharmaceuticals and medical devices: A copy of the trade license. A copy of the industrial license. A copy of the technical managers license. Good manufacturing practices inspection report.
Add Privilege for Health Professional Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days (from the date of completing the requirements and conditions u... View more Service fees Application fees: (AED 500) Verification of scientific certificates ('Data Flo... About the Service This service allows dentists and physicians who wish to add a specialty to their current specialties, to take up the required tests for obtaining a license in the target specialty. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Fill in the required information, submit the evaluation request, and pay the application fee. 3 You will be provided with a link to pay the certificate verification fee (DataFlow). As soon as the fee is paid, the application procedures will be completed (either approval will be given to take up the exams, or an exemption from exams will be given in accordance with the terms and requirements of the
be given to take up the exams, or an exemption from exams will be given in accordance with the terms and requirements of the exemption). 4 If you pass the exams (or in case of being exempt from the exams), the evaluation certificate will be issued and sent via email. 5 In case of failure, the exam can be retaken (maximum number of attempts is 3 for each category). Conditions & Requirements There should be no interruption of practicing the profession for more than two years. The certificate must be accredited in the country. Pass the prescribed exams, if required. All documents submitted by Data Flow are checked and the result of the report must be positive. Certificates are accepted in Arabic or English only, and if they are in other languages, the certificate must be legally translated and duly certified, and the two original certificates must be uploaded with the translated copy. In the case of transfer from the Abu Dhabi Department of Health or the Dubai Health Authority, the
with the translated copy. In the case of transfer from the Abu Dhabi Department of Health or the Dubai Health Authority, the license must be valid, and if it is not renewed or canceled, it must not exceed a period of 6 months, and in the case of exceeding 6 months in one day, the transfer is not made and the applicant is subject to the prescribed exams. Experience is calculated from the date of issuance of the license. For more information about the approval of the scientific certificate for the target specialty, read the Handbook of Unified Standards for Licensing Practitioners of Health Professions (PQR). FAQ’s How many trials are available to pass the prescribed exams? 3 times only. Service completion duration 5 working days (from the date of completing the requirements and conditions until the approval of the ministry's employee) Service fees Application fees: (AED 500) Verification of scientific certificates ('Data Flow') click here Service channels MOHAP Website:
Application fees: (AED 500) Verification of scientific certificates ('Data Flow') click here Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Call Center: 80011111 Email: EPT.support@mohap.gov.ae  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Physicians and dentists Resources User Manual Unified healthcare professional qualification requirements - PDF 5598KB Infographic - Healthcare Professional Evaluation/Second Medical Title Infographic - Add Privilege for Health Professional - PDF 378KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Professional Evaluation Service Code 110-06-008-049 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 8 Number of Transactions 41
to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 8 Number of Transactions 41 Notes None Required Documents Academic qualification recognized according to the Guide to the Unified Standards for Licensing Health Professions The duration of practical experience corresponding to the field of specialization according to the Guide to Unified Standards for Licensing Health Professions A professional license corresponding to the period of work experience A certificate of good professional conduct issued at the same place where the professional license was issued A valid passport Passport and family book for citizens The applicant’s birth certificate and the mother’s family book for children of female citizens For more information, refer to the Handbook of Unified Standards for Practitioners of Health Practitioners Licensing (PQR)
Apply for Awareness or Educational Event Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Free About the Service This service allows customers to request permission to organize educational activities and awareness programs, including lectures, workshops, examinations and others. Service Process 1 Customer should submit request to organize a health education event to the Director of Health Education Department. 2 The event scope is determined by the director (whether health promotion or health education). Applications for health promotion events are transferred to the Head of Public Health and Tobacco Control Programs; and applications for health education events are transferred to the Director of Health Education and Promotion Department. 3 A feasibility study will be conducted on the event subject. 4 The implementation date will be determined via email by the Director of Health Education and Promotion in coordination with the entity
date will be determined via email by the Director of Health Education and Promotion in coordination with the entity concerned. 5 The implementation plan will be developed and approved by the Director of Health Education and Promotion or the Head of Public Health and Tobacco Control Programs. 6 The person responsible for implementing the project must be a health educator or a nutritionist, and will be directed to the officer concerned. The person responsible for implementing the event must file a report together with the event implementation form to be submitted to the Director of Health Education and Promotion. Conditions & Requirements None Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: Health.ed@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: Health.ed@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: Health.ed@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels None - Service is
Email: Health.ed@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: Health.ed@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Associations Educational institutions Government institutions Resources Application form for the implementation of an event - Available in Arabic 08_Apply for Awareness or Educational Event Department name Health Promotion Sector name Public Health Main service Healthcare Awareness and Education Service Code 110-16-006-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business - Government to Government Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents Application form for organizing a health education event.
Approval of Pharmacovigilance Officer within UAE Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Free About the Service This service enables companies to submit an application to approve and register their QPPV (Qualified Person Of Pharmacovigilance) officers. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Review documents and requirements 3 If the application is approved, the approval will be issued and sent to the applicant Conditions & Requirements QPPV must be resident in the UAE. QPPV must be a doctor or pharmacist. QPPV must have experience in pharmacovigilance, monitoring of side effects and risk analysis. QPPV must hold an appropriate qualification in pharmacovigilance from an international establishment. QPPV must have an appointment letter from the medical facility and not a recruitment agent. QPPV must provide a list of the registered drugs for which he is responsible. Standard Operating
and not a recruitment agent. QPPV must provide a list of the registered drugs for which he is responsible. Standard Operating Procedures of QPPV tasks must be provided. FAQ’s Can I apply for this service manually? This service is exclusively an e-service. submission via email or manually will not be obtained. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Email: PV@mohap.gov.ae Support PV@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Marketing offices Medical drug stores Local pharmaceutical factories Resources User Manual - Registration Services Infographic - Approval of Pharmacovigilance Officer of Pharmaceutical Facility UAE MOHAP GVP Guidelines ver 1.3.pdf Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Pharmaceutical vigilance Service Code 110-45-001-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Required Documents Letter of appointment
Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Required Documents Letter of appointment from the medical facility. QPPV Qualification Certificate from university or postgraduate education. Statement of QPPV experience. CV of the QPPV. Applicant's training certificates. Applicant's proof of UAE residency. List of products covered by QPPV. Minimum of 15 ADR reports in the UAE. SOP of the QPPV in the company.
Renewal of a Healthcare Advertisement on a Website or Digital Link Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 License for healthcare advertisement on website or... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for the renewal of a license for a healthcare advertisement or content on a healthcare website or digital link. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the service fee online.
or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the service fee online. 7 The customer shall print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One
the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 License for healthcare advertisement on website or link: AED 1,000 per month and AED 3,000 per year Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support  Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources
Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic - Renewal of a Healthcare Advertisement on a Website or Digital - PDF 360KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-037-001 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other
Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 3 Notes None Required Documents A copy of the homepage of the website with the code link to the website Valid licenses of service providers listed on the website Valid registration or classification certificates of the products or pharmaceuticals listed on the website
Registration of a Change to the Professional Title of a Pharmacist Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 About the Service This service allows medical and pharmaceutical facilities to apply for the registration of changes to the professional job titles on the licenses of employees in the pharmacy profession, including first and second official pharmacists and assistant pharmacists. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application and if it meets all the requirements, the application will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The
and if it meets all the requirements, the application will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all the conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements A valid assessment certificate, updated as per the Health Professional Licensing Requirements (PQR). Service completion
A valid assessment certificate, updated as per the Health Professional Licensing Requirements (PQR). Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support  Email: info@mohap.gov.ae    Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical and pharmaceutical facilities, first official pharmacists, second official pharmacists, assistant pharmacists Resources Pharmaceutial Licensing UserManual - Applicant PQR V Infographic - Registration of a Change to the Professional Title of a Pharmacist - PDF 363KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-009-018 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other
Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 10442 Number of Transactions 130 Notes None  Required Documents Letter requesting amendment to the title from the facility List of controlled drugs (for official pharmacist)
Re-license (Re-register) a Pharmaceutical Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Final approval fees, according to the type of faci... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for re-registration of pharmaceutical facilities following the cancellation of the license by the owner or the suspension of the license by the ministry within 180 days from the date of expiry. Service Process 1 Login to the facility's account on MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit an application for re-licensing a pharmaceutical facility and pay the fee. 3 Submit an application for initial approval. 4 Once the requirements are met, the initial approval is issued and a no objection certificate is issued for government entities (such as economic departments and municipalities.) 5 Proceed with finalizing the licenses and the requirements of different government
economic departments and municipalities.) 5 Proceed with finalizing the licenses and the requirements of different government entities (such as Civil Defense). 6 Submit an application for licensing of medical staff (pharmacists). 7 Once the requirements are met, pay the fee and send the request for final approval with the required documents. 8 Once approved, the license will be issued electronically and sent via email. It can also be downloaded through the website. Conditions & Requirements This service can be applied only after cancelling the existing license and the cancellation will be temporary. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Final approval fees, according to the type of facility: Pharmacies and medical store : AED 7,500 Marketing offices: AED 10,000 Warehouse for export: AED 10,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email:
Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies Warehouses Manufacturers of medicines and medical devices Marketing offices Warehouses for re-export Resources MoH Ministerial Decree 60-2013 regulating Medical Stores - Available in Arabic MOHAP Misiterial Decree 1110-2016 about the Scientific offices - Available in Arabic Infographic - Re-license Re-register a Pharmaceutical Facility - PDF 392KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-020-024 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services Pharmacies, warehouses, marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 9
marketing offices, warehouses for re-export: Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 9 Number of Transactions 50 Notes None Required Documents A letter signed by the owner Initial approval: Request letter for re-licensing Final approval: A copy of establishment lease agreement A copy of establishment trade license A copy of Civil Defense certificate License of the pharmacist concerned
Re-Pricing of a Medicine Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 90 working days View more Service fees Re-pricing per medical product: AED 1000 New pricing certificate: AED 500 About the Service This service enables pharmaceutical companies that have registered pharmaceutical products for importation and marketing within the UAE to apply for the re-pricing of a product. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The customer shall submit the re-pricing of the pharmaceutical product application 3 The customer shall attach the pricing certificate issued by the country of origin which includes the proposed price of the product in UAE and explain the justifications for repricing the product, in addition to reference prices 4 The product price is determined based on the approval of the Drugs Pricing Committee 5 The ministerial decision on the price of the medical product will be issued 6 The pricing certificate will be issued
5 The ministerial decision on the price of the medical product will be issued 6 The pricing certificate will be issued Conditions & Requirements Approval of the Drugs Pricing Committee. All registration requirements must be completed. The price certificate should be submitted as per subject number 3 in the pricing regulations. The certificate should be issued, signed and stamped from the manufacturer or the marketing authorization holder. The certificate should be attested from the ministry of health, ministry of commerce or the trade chamber in the COO or its competent. The certificate should be attested from the United Arab Emirates embassy in the COO. In case there is no UAE embassy, it could be attested from an embassy of one of the GCC countries. The GCC products are excepted from attesting the price certificate from UAE embassy. Re-pricing reasons certificate should be submitted. Service completion duration 90 working days Service fees Re-pricing per medical product: AED 1000
should be submitted. Service completion duration 90 working days Service fees Re-pricing per medical product: AED 1000 New pricing certificate: AED 500 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Resources User Manual - Registration Services Re-Pricing of a Single Medical Product Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-015-015 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Number of Transactions 220 Required Documents Pricing certificate from the country of origin. Genuine Reasons for re-pricing the product. Reference prices from Gulf and European countries for
from the country of origin. Genuine Reasons for re-pricing the product. Reference prices from Gulf and European countries for further comparison.
Certificate of Release of Shipment of Pharmaceutical Products Derived from Biological Sources Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Fees for the release of a shipment of pharmaceutic... About the Service This service enables customers to apply for a release certificate for a shipment of pharmaceutical products extracted from biological sources, in order to facilitate the issuance of an import permit, ensure the conformity of documents and certificates, and ensure that the product is safe for treatment. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The applicant must submits the application online and pay the service fee 3 The certificate will be issued within 3 working days 4 The applicant should courier the original / legalized documents to Drug Department, MOHAP HQ, Dubai Conditions & Requirements * Registration Certificate must be submitted if the final product is registered with the
HQ, Dubai Conditions & Requirements * Registration Certificate must be submitted if the final product is registered with the Ministry. * Registration certificate in the country of origin and Purchase orders from the end users must be submitted by the applicant where the product is not registered in the UAE. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Fees for the release of a shipment of pharmaceutical products derived from biological sources: AED500 Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations MOHAP website Support import.export@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Drug Stores, Local pharmaceutical factories, Government Hospitals Resources Infographic_Certificate of Release of Shipment of Pharmaceutical Products Derived from Biological Sources Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Clearance, Import and Export Permits Service Code 110-02-025-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub
and Export Permits Service Code 110-02-025-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 915 Required Documents Required documents for the products derived from Human Blood and Vaccines: Original batch release certificate issued by OMCL in country of origin / Legalized copy Original Certificate of Final Product Analysis signed, stamped and duly authenticated / Legalized copy Invoice Report of the production process flow, from beginning to final product (Protocol of manufacturing and Analysis) LPO, Declaration and Technical report about consumption from end user Copy of pharmacist's and warehouse licenses Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product WHO prequalification certificate for Vaccines Required documents for the products of Human Tissue Origin: Valid Tissue Bank Certificate of the exporter FDA/Authority License for the manufacturer and Product Storage and Handling temperature details Invoice Copy of
of the exporter FDA/Authority License for the manufacturer and Product Storage and Handling temperature details Invoice Copy of pharmacist's and warehouse licenses
License for a Healthcare Advertisement Related to a Healthcare Event Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly license for a healthcare advertisement rel... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for a license to organize a healthcare event in a public or private venue other than the organizing facility's premises. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fee
issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fee online or through a Customer Happiness Center. 7 The customer shall print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material. Documentation must be provided for each product included in the licensed advertisement. Advertisements in languages other than Arabic or English must be legally translated into Arabic or English. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to
professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy). One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly license for a healthcare advertisement related to a healthcare event: AED 600 for one month per event Annual license for a healthcare advertisement related to a healthcare event: AED 6,000 for one
AED 600 for one month per event Annual license for a healthcare advertisement related to a healthcare event: AED 6,000 for one year per event Note: The fees to renew health advertisements are the same as those for new licenses; there is no annual license renewal and, therefore, new applications are required. Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions,
health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic - License for a Healthcare Advertisement Related to a Healthcare Event - PDF 370KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-030-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 34 Notes None  Required Documents A letter from the facility stating the details and nature of the event Valid licenses of event participants A letter from the regulatory health authority governing the facility
Licensing of a Doctor or Dentist to Utilize the Services of a Private Health Facility Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Licensing of a doctor or dentist to utilize the se... About the Service This service allows medical facilities to apply for a license for a doctor or dentist to utilize the services of a private health facility. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application. If it meets the requirements, the application will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website,
be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all the conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements Each doctor is provided with two opportunities only Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Licensing of a doctor or dentist to utilize the
completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Licensing of a doctor or dentist to utilize the services of a private health facility: AED 1000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Private health facilities, general practitioners, dentists, specialist physicians, consultant physicians Resources eTransform-Licensing_User_Manual_Ver_1 22_Licensing of a Doctor or Dentist to Utilize the Services of a Private Health Facility Infographic - Licensing of a Doctor or Dentist to Utilize the Services of a Private Health Facility - PDF 374KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-012-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type
Service Code 110-40-012-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 148 Notes None Required Documents Letter from the facility Job offer Copy of permanent license Facility plan approved by MOHAP engineers Good conduct certificate (only for DHA doctors) Insurance against medical errors Facility's license List of licensed doctors and technicians in the facility Letter of undertaking addressed by the doctor with the number of licenses No Objection letter from the other facility List of operations to be carried out by the facility Letter of responsibility from the facility
Issue of a License for a Healthcare Advertisement in a Medical or Commercial Directory Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 License for healthcare advertisement in a medical ... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for a license for a healthcare advertisement in a medical or commercial directory, whether printed or digital Service Process 1 To apply for e-services, create an account on MOHAP website or smart app with a username and password 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable) 5 The official concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments of the advertisement or documents 6 Upon receipt of approval, the
documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments of the advertisement or documents 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fees online or through a Customer Happiness Center 7 The customer shall print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and end dates of the license Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material Documentation must be provided for each product included in the licensed advertisement Advertisements in languages other than Arabic or English must be legally translated into Arabic or English One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon
to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 License for healthcare advertisement in a medical or commercial directory: AED 1,000 Kindly refer to the schedule of fees for further details Service channels MOHAP Website:
or commercial directory: AED 1,000 Kindly refer to the schedule of fees for further details Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae    MOHAP Smart App Service Centers Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Infographic - Issue of a License for a Healthcare Advertisement in a Medical or Commercial Directory - PDF 361KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector
a Healthcare Advertisement in a Medical or Commercial Directory - PDF 361KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-029-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 1701 Required Documents Valid licences of the service provider Valid registration or classification certificates of any products or pharmaceuticals mentioned in the advertisement (if any) Additional documents may be requested depending on the format of the advertisement (such as design, text, images or storyboard)
Renewal License for a Healthcare Advertisement Related to a Healthcare Event Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly license for a healthcare advertisement re... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for the renewal of a license to organize a healthcare event in a public or private venue other than the organizing facility's premises. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Click 'ad view' to show a list of possible transactions; the color of the transaction bar will change. 3 Select 'renew and open the transaction' and change the date as required. 4 Pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will approve the advertisement. 6 Pay the service fee online or through a Customer Happiness Center. 7 Print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license.
a Customer Happiness Center. 7 Print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications should be submitted at least 3 working days before the expiry of the original licence. If any changes, additions or replacement of documents are required upon renewal, the application must be submitted on a new form. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution that holds a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice in the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organisation licensed by one of the economic
contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organisation licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly license for a healthcare advertisement related to a healthcare event: AED 600 for one month per event or Annual license for a healthcare advertisement related to a healthcare event: AED 6,000 for one year per event Note: The fees to renew health advertisements are the same as those for new licenses; there is no annual license renewal and, therefore, new applications are required. Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP
MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae    MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic - Renewal License for a Healthcare Advertisement Related to a Healthcare Event - PDF 370KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service
to a Healthcare Event - PDF 370KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-030-030 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents The e-system allows the use of the original approved application, under a new number, with the required documents attached
Request Handover of Narcotic Drugs Custody Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1 to 3 working days View more Service fees Free About the Service Request for the signature of the doctor/pharmacist in charge of narcotic drugs in hospitals and one-day surgeries, and/or a request for the delivery of drugs from those in charge. Service Process 1 The customer shall submit the request, complete the form and attach the relevant documents. 2 Request will be endorsed by the employee concerned. 3 The customer will pay the submission fees. 4 The employee concerned will approve and forward the approval to the customer via email. Conditions & Requirements The customer must complete forms F1 (Narcotic application) and F2 (Signature approval) if the facility is new or if a new administrator has been appointed. If the administrator resigns or is on leave and a substitute supervisor is appointed, the customer must fill out form F3 (NARCOTIC DRUGS STOCK HAND OVER). The narcotic
and a substitute supervisor is appointed, the customer must fill out form F3 (NARCOTIC DRUGS STOCK HAND OVER). The narcotic drugs receipt form must be approved and signed by the appointed official. A delivery list of semi-controlled, controlled and narcotic drugs should accompany the form. Service completion duration 1 to 3 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart App MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies within hospitals One day surgery centers Resources Form RDC-NP-F01 Narcotic appli-private-hosp Form RDC-NP-F02 Signature approval Form RDC-NP-F03 Signature approval for Q Infographic_Request handover of narcotics custody among pharmacists Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code
name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-003-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 111 Required Documents Letter from the technical director of the hospital/one-day surgery clinic or medical warehouse owner, listing the drugs required, including their types, concentrations and quantities, the name of the designated pharmacist/doctor in custody of the drugs, and reason for the drug requirement. Copy of valid license of the custodian. Copy of the establishment's license, where issued by a licensing authority other than the Ministry of Health and Prevention (Dubai Health Authority/Dubai Healthcare City/Health Authority Abu Dhabi/Ministry of Environment and Climate Change). Copy of the UAE ID of the technical director and of the custodian. NOC from the licensing authority. Copy of the establishment's Dubai Chamber of
of the technical director and of the custodian. NOC from the licensing authority. Copy of the establishment's Dubai Chamber of Commerce & Industry membership. Copy of the commercial license issued by the Department of Economic Development. List of doctors and their valid licenses.
Issue a Price List for Medical Products Registered in the UAE Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 to 5 working days View more Service fees Price list of medical products priced in the UAE: ... About the Service This service enables clients to apply for a price list of the medical products registered in the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The application for a price list of drugs must be submitted and the fees must be paid 3 The employee concerned will provide the required list on the website Conditions & Requirements To request the list through MOHAP official website, with paying the fees. Service completion duration 3 to 5 working days Service fees Price list of medical products priced in the UAE: 500 AED Service locations MOHAP Website Support drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing Offices Resources Request
channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing Offices Resources Request for a Price List for Medical Products Registered in the UAE Service Infographic - Request for a Price List for Medical Products Registered in the UAE - PDF 408KB Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-020-000 Service Classfication Informational Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 13 Required Documents Request the list through MOHAP official website. Submit Official letter of request for the list of medicines addressed to the Director of the Pharmaceutical Department on the company's letterhead. Payment through MOHAP official website.
Issue a price list for controlled or semi-controlled medicines Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1 to 5 working days View more Service fees Price List Fee: AED200 About the Service Request for the price list of controlled and semi-controlled medicines in the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The application for a price list of drugs must be submitted and fees paid 3 The concerned employee will provide the required list in the website Conditions & Requirements To request the list through MOHAP official website, with paying the fees. FAQ’s How do I request the list of price for controlled or semi-control medicines? Through the MOHAP Website and Smart Application. Service completion duration 1 to 5 working days Service fees Price List Fee: AED200 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohab Website MOHAP Smart Application Support drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E-
Mobile App Service locations Mohab Website MOHAP Smart Application Support drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmaceutical warehouses Local pharmaceutical factories Marketing offices Resources Request for price list for controlled or semi-control medicines Service_EN Request for price list for controlled or semi-controlled medicines Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-008-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked with any other service Service Bundle Obtaining the service is not linked with any bundle Number of Users 15 Number of Transactions 3 Required Documents Submit Official letter of request for the list of medicines addressed to the Director of the Pharmaceutical Department on the company's letterhead.
Request to determine or modify the Narcotic drugs quotas of a Private Health or Pharmaceutical Institution Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration One hour View more Service fees Application Fee AED100 About the Service Application for approval to determine narcotic drugs quotas for new establishments or to modify narcotic drugs quotas for establishments already registered at MOHAP, in order to purchase narcotics from the local agent or MOHAP's central warehouses for use within the establishment. Service Process 1 The customer shall submit the request, complete Form F6 (APPROVE/ ADJUST NARCOTIC QUOTA), and attach the relevant documents. 2 Request will be endorsed. 3 The customer will pay the submission fee. 4 The MOH&P officer will approve and forward the approval to the customer via email. Conditions & Requirements The quantities of drugs expected to be used annually should be determined. Service completion duration One hour Service fees Application Fee AED100
expected to be used annually should be determined. Service completion duration One hour Service fees Application Fee AED100 Service channels Service Centers Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies within hospitals One day surgery centers Resources Form RDC-NP-F06 NARCOTIC QUOTA ADJUST Request to determine or modify the Narcotic drugs quotas of a Private Health or Pharmaceutical Institution Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-011-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 330 Required Documents Copy of valid license of the hospital/day surgery clinic. Copy of valid license of the pharmacy. Copy of valid license of the hospital/day surgery clinic. Copy of valid pharmaceutical license/doctor in charge. Form for custody of narcotics. Official letter from the technical director of the
pharmaceutical license/doctor in charge. Form for custody of narcotics. Official letter from the technical director of the hospital/day surgery clinic, listing the hospital's required drugs, including their types, concentration and quantities (standard stock), number of hospital beds and operations performed, as well as identification of the custodian of drugs. Copy of trade license of the hospital/day surgery clinic. Copy of Chamber of Commerce membership. Copy of the commercial license of the hospital/day surgery clinic. Completed Form F6, "Approval/determination or modification of quotas of drugs", signed by the pharmacist/doctor in charge or, in their absence, the supervising pharmacist/doctor, and stamped by the applicant. Copy of the UAE ID of the pharmacist/doctor in charge. Copy of the UAE ID of the medical director. Fee of AED100. Previous approval in case of quota amendment. Approval of the health authority, if the license of the establishment is from the Dubai Healthcare
in case of quota amendment. Approval of the health authority, if the license of the establishment is from the Dubai Healthcare City Authority or the Dubai Health Authority.
Registration of A Pharmaceutical Product Derived from Natural Sources Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 45 working days View more Service fees Application: 100 AED Registration of a pharmaceutical product derived f... About the Service This service allows the registration of pharmaceutical products derived from natural sources such as medicinal plants and animal. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS. 2 Submit the request through the electronic service and complete the payment to meet all conditions. 3 The competent committees will deliberate the registration of products and then recommendations shall be submitted to the competent ministerial committee. 4 The competent committees will deliberate the products' prices and then recommendations will be submitted to the competent ministerial committee. 5 The customer shall follow up with the Analysis Section of at the Drug Department. 6 The concerned companies should complete
5 The customer shall follow up with the Analysis Section of at the Drug Department. 6 The concerned companies should complete the requirements and submit them online. 7 The relevant technical and ministerial committees will re-deliberate the registration of products that have been deferred in advance as soon as companies complete the requirements. 8 The certificates of registration of products that have been approved for registration will be issued, provided all the conditions and requirements are met. Registration certificates are valid for five years effective the date of committee approval. 9 The pharmaceutical certificates (for locally manufactured pharmaceutical products) shall be issued and be valid for one year effective the date of issuance. Conditions & Requirements Marketing Authorization Holder companies must be registered by MOHAP before they could register their products. The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by the Ministry of Health and have a valid
could register their products. The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by the Ministry of Health and have a valid license. FAQ’s What are the fees for the registration of a pharmaceutical product derived from natural sources? Application: AED 100. Registration of a pharmaceutical product derived from natural sources: AED 5,000. What is the average length of time for the registration of a pharmaceutical product derived from natural sources? 45 working days. What is the target group for a conventional pharmaceutical product registration service? Drug warehouses. Local Pharmaceutical manufacturers. Marketing Officers. What channels are available to apply for the registration of a medical device? MOHAP Website and Smart Application. Service completion duration 45 working days Service fees Application: 100 AED Registration of a pharmaceutical product derived from natural sources: 5,000 AED Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Payment channels E-
derived from natural sources: 5,000 AED Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Resources Drug Registration - External User Manual Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Infographic_Registration of A Pharmaceutical Product Derived from Natural Sources Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-018-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked with other services Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages Number of Users 22 Number of Transactions 107 Required Documents The application form for registering pharmaceutical products derived from natural sources completely signed and stamped by the company. Certificate of pharmaceutical
products derived from natural sources completely signed and stamped by the company. Certificate of pharmaceutical product or certificate of free sale of the product issued by the competent authorities in the country of origin certified by the UAE Embassy. Detailed product formulation certificate which includes active and inactive substances along with their quantities and functions of inactive substances. A certificate of absence of pig derivatives/ hormones/ steroids. Certificate of absence of mad cow disease and its causes in products containing dairy products. A copy of the certified contract of the product agency signed between the marketing company and the local agent. A valid certificate of registration of the manufacturing company issued by MOHAP. One sample of the product. Provide product analysis requirements.
License for a Healthcare Program Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 License of an audio or audiovisual healthcare pro... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for the renewal of a previously issued healthcare program license to appear or participate in a radio or television show. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the service fee online. 7 The customer can print
or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the service fee online. 7 The customer can print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements Renewal applications should be submitted at least 3 working days before the expiry of the original license. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution that holds a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organisation licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their
must be opened for each commercial organisation licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 License of an audio or audiovisual healthcare program: AED 1,200 per month and AED 12,000 per year License for participation in an audio healthcare program: AED 800 per month and AED 8,000 per year License for participation in an audiovisual healthcare program: AED 900 per month and AED 9,000 per year Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target
www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval infographic - License for a Healthcare Program - 371KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-034-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services
Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 59 Notes None Required Documents A letter from the establishment explaining the details and nature of participation in the program with a declaration from the participant not to promote himself, his establishment, or any other party, and that the conversation be within the competence only A valid license for program participants
Request Treatment Abroad Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Free About the Service This service enables UAE nationals to request treatment outside the country in the absence of appropriate treatments at the health establishments of the Ministry of Health and Prevention. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Review and ensure that all the documents have been attached. 3 The authority concerned will prepare the file for submission to the Medical Committee for the treatment abroad. 4 The applicant will be notified of the Committee's decision. Conditions & Requirements Unavailability of appropriate treatment in the health establishments authorized by the Ministry. Emergency medical treatment required while travelling abroad. Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: Int.health@mohap.gov.ae Service
days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: Int.health@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: Int.health@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: Int.health@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Patients (all age groups) UAE Nationals Resources 11_Request Treatment Abroad Main service Treatment Abroad Service Code 110-39-001-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 40 Notes This service is limited to UAE nationals Required Documents Copy of a recent medical report issued by a government hospital in the UAE. Copy of the patient's passport. Copy of the patient's ID card. Copy of the citizenship (family book).
Reporting Side Effects of Medicines and Medical Products Within UAE for Individuals Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees No payment - Free service About the Service This service allows medical health professionals and pharmaceutical companies to report adverse drug reactions to medical products and evaluate the report by concerned section in the Department. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Fill in the required information 3 submit application 4 Review documents and requirements. by MOHAP officers 5 The report will then be sent to the World Health Organization (Uppsala Monitoring Center) 6 If necessary, circulars will be issued regarding the report Conditions & Requirements The report should list all required patient data. The report should state all required data of the writer. The report should define the required drug data. The report should clearly state the side effects
required data of the writer. The report should define the required drug data. The report should clearly state the side effects experienced from the drug. FAQ’s Can I apply for this service manually? This service is exclusively an e-service. submission via email or manually will not be obtained. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees No payment - Free service Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations MOHAP Website  MOHAP SmartApp Support PV@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Marketing Offices Medical stores Local and international pharmaceutical factories Patients Health care practitioners Health institutions Marketing Offices Resources User Manual - Reporting Side Effects Infographic - Reporting Side Effects of Medicines and Medical Products - PDF 358KB Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Pharmaceutical vigilance Service Code 110-45-004-000 Service Classfication Informational Service
Health Regulation Main service Pharmaceutical vigilance Service Code 110-45-004-000 Service Classfication Informational Service Type Government to Business - Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to other services Service Bundle The service is not linked to any other bundle Required Documents No document required
Evaluation of Pharmacovigilance Plan for Medical Products within UAE Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Evaluation of PV Plan for pharmaceutical establish... About the Service This service enables pharmaceutical companies and their subsidiaries to apply for their pharmacovigilance plan to be evaluated with the aim of registering and marketing medicines within the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Log in to the e-system to start the service 3 Apply for Evaluation of the Plan (within the Drug Registration File) 4 Application will be studied by the staff concerned, who will make the necessary recommendations 5 PV plan will be adopted 6 Approval will be issued and delivered to the applicant Conditions & Requirements Clarification of the roles and responsibilities of the manufacturer regarding pharmacovigilance. Clarification of plan for monitoring compliance and inspection of
of the manufacturer regarding pharmacovigilance. Clarification of plan for monitoring compliance and inspection of pharmaceutical products. Appointment of a qualified person to be the responsible pharmacovigilance officer. FAQ’s Can I apply for this service manually? This service is exclusively an e-service. submission via email or manually will not be obtained. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Evaluation of PV Plan for pharmaceutical establishment and its subsidiaries: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart App Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Marketing Offices Medical drug stores Local pharmaceutical factories Resources User Manual - Registration Services Infographic - Evaluation of Pharmacovigilance Plan for Pharmaceutical Facility and its Subsidiaries - PDF 358KB UAE MOHAP GVP Guidelines ver 1.3.pdf Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main
and its Subsidiaries - PDF 358KB UAE MOHAP GVP Guidelines ver 1.3.pdf Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Pharmaceutical vigilance Service Code 110-45-002-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 658 Required Documents The role and responsibilities of the manufacturer regarding PV. Compliance monitoring and pharmacovigilance inspections. Role of the Qualified Person Responsible for Pharmacovigilance (QPPV). Pharmacovigilance Plan of the company. Organizational chart of the company. Quality Management System. Risk Management Systems requirement: Clinical & non-clinical studies of the drug's safety specifications. Drugs' adverse events/adverse reactions. Clarification and identification of potential interactions, including food-drug and drug-drug interactions. Epidemiology. Risk Minimization Plan. Requirements for expedited reporting of the side effects of patients
interactions. Epidemiology. Risk Minimization Plan. Requirements for expedited reporting of the side effects of patients (Individual Safety reports). Requirements for reporting for patients in special situations (Individual Case Safety Special Situation). Requirements for Periodic Safety Update reports or Periodic Benefit Risk reports. QPPV training plan. Documentation of PV system.
Issue of a Single Medical Product Pricing Certificate Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 90 working days View more Service fees Pricing certificate per medical product: 500 AED About the Service This service enables clients to apply for a single product pricing certificate for pharmaceutical companies that have registered pharmaceutical products for importation and marketing within the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The customer shall submit the product registration application online 3 The customer shall attach the pricing certificate issued by the country of origin which includes the proposed price of the product in UAE 4 The product price is determined based on the approval of the Drugs Pricing 5 The ministerial decision on the price of the medical product will be issued 6 Complete all the registration requirements 7 The pricing certificate will be issued Conditions & Requirements Approval of the Drugs
all the registration requirements 7 The pricing certificate will be issued Conditions & Requirements Approval of the Drugs Pricing Committee. Complete all registration requirements. The price certificate should be submitted as per subject number 3 in the pricing regulations. The certificate should be issued, signed and stamped from the manufacturer or the marketing authorization holder. The certificate should be attested from the ministry of health, ministry of commerce or the trade chamber in the COO or its competent. The certificate should be attested from the United Arab Emirates embassy in the COO. In case there is no UAE embassy, it could be attested from an embassy of one of the GCC countries. The GCC products are excepted from attesting the price certificate from UAE embassy. Service completion duration 90 working days Service fees Pricing certificate per medical product: 500 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Mohab Website Support
fees Pricing certificate per medical product: 500 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing Offices Resources Pricing Rules User Manual - Registration Services Infographic - Issue of a Single Medical Product Pricing Certificate PDF 367KB Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-015-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 1339 Required Documents Pricing certificate issued by the country of origin which includes the proposed price of the product in UAE in AED or USD and CIF of the reference countries in which the product is marketed in AED or USD.
Request a Register of the Narcotic drugs distributed to Private Health Establishments Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration One hour View more Service fees AED300 About the Service This service enables the request for a narcotic drugs register book for distribution to the pharmacy and departments in private health facilities. Service Process 1 Submit the required documents at the Customer Happiness Center. 2 Make the required payment. 3 The customer will receive the register. Conditions & Requirements Service completion duration One hour Service fees AED300 Service channels Service Centers Customer Happiness Center - Ministry Office, Dubai  Central warehouses of the Ministry of Health and Prevention Service locations Service centers Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies within private hospitals One day surgery centers Resources Request a Register of the Narcotic drugs distributed to Private Health Establishments Department name Drug Sector name
Request a Register of the Narcotic drugs distributed to Private Health Establishments Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-012-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 98 Required Documents Letter addressed to the Director of Drug Administration, requesting the record. Copy of valid pharmacy license.
Issue a Certificate of Compliance with good Manufacturing Practice Standards Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 - 5 working days View more Service fees AED 2,000 per production line annually About the Service This service enables customers to request the issuance of a Certificate of Compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice Standards, subject to the stipulated requirements and control criteria for pharmaceutical industries, including buildings, environment, methods of documentation, work procedures and after-services, in order to ensure production and quality control. Service Process 1 Apply for the certificate and pay the application fees 2 Following inspection, the report will be reviewed, documents will be checked and the application will be either approved or can rejected if there are missing documents 3 If approved, the certificate will be issued to the applicant Conditions & Requirements The GCC and WHO standards must be adhered to. The final report,
will be issued to the applicant Conditions & Requirements The GCC and WHO standards must be adhered to. The final report, including approval of the certificate, will be issued by the Head of the Drug Department. Should the report contain any comments, another inspection will be arranged. Service completion duration 3 - 5 working days Service fees AED 2,000 per production line annually Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Support DrugReg.Inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Local medication factories Resources GMP Checklist GMP Inspection Checklist Good Manufacturing Practice cGMP Infographic_Issue a Certificate of Compliance with good Manufacturing Practice Standards Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-022-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type
Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-022-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Required Documents A written request for an inspection of the manufacturing site should be addressed to the Drug Department.
Approve narcotic drugs for one day surgery centers Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 to 5 working days View more Service fees Application Fee AED100 About the Service Application for approval of narcotic drugs quotas for new establishments or to modify narcotic drugs quotas of establishments already registered at MOHAP, in order to purchase narcotics from the local agent or MOHAP's central warehouses for use within the establishment. Service Process 1 The customer shall submit the request, complete Form F6 (APPROVE/ ADJUST NARCOTIC QUOTA), and attach the relevant documents. 2 Request will be endorsed. 3 The customer will pay the submission fees. 4 The MOHAP officer will approve and forward the approval to the customer via email. Conditions & Requirements The quantities of drugs expected to be used annually should be determined. Service completion duration 3 to 5 working days Service fees Application Fee AED100 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart App
completion duration 3 to 5 working days Service fees Application Fee AED100 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support controlledchemicals@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience One Day Surgery Centers Internal Pharmacies in the Hospitals Resources Form RDC-NP-F01 Narcotic appli-private-hosp Form RDC-NP-F02 Signature approval Form RDC-NP-F03 Signature approval for Q Infographic_Approve narcotic drugs for one day surgery centers Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-005-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 27 Required Documents The quantities of drugs expected to be used annually should be determined. Copy of pharmacy's valid license. Copy of valid license of hospital/one-day surgery clinic. Copy of
should be determined. Copy of pharmacy's valid license. Copy of valid license of hospital/one-day surgery clinic. Copy of valid license of pharmacist/doctor in charge. Form for the custody of narcotic drugs. Official letter from the medical director, listing the narcotic drug requirements, including their purpose, type and quantities, the pharmacist/doctor in charge of custody of the narcotics, and the activities and operations performed by the hospital/day surgery clinic. Copy of trade license of the hospital/day surgery clinic. Copy of Chamber of Commerce membership. Copy of the commercial license of the hospital/day surgery clinic. Completed copy of Form F6, "Approval/determination or modification of quotas of drugs", signed by the pharmacist/doctor in charge or, in their absence, the supervising pharmacist/doctor, and stamped by the applicant. Copy of the UAE ID of the pharmacist/doctor in charge. Copy of the UAE ID of the medical director. Fee of AED100. Previous approval in case
UAE ID of the pharmacist/doctor in charge. Copy of the UAE ID of the medical director. Fee of AED100. Previous approval in case of quota amendment. The approval of the health authority, if the license of the establishment is from the Dubai Healthcare City Authority or the Dubai Health Authority. The customer submits the application, with the completed Form F6, accompanied by the required documents. The application is studied by the employee concerned. The customer pays the fees. The employee concerned issues, approves and delivers the approval to the customer via e-mail.
Submit Complaints and Feedback Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Urgent complaints: within 1 working day Normal complaints: within 5 wor... View more Service fees Free About the Service This service allows customers to submit their complaints and feedback on various topics related to the services provided by the MOHAP, staff, service provision methods, the work environment, etc. The complaints/feedback usually result from the failure to obtain a required service, non-compliance with the standards, or employee conduct. MOHAP assesses each complaint and takes the appropriate action Service Process 1 The customer submits his/her complaint or feedback through one of the available channels 2 The concerned department will be determined and the adequacy of the information will be verified. If necessary, The complainant will be contacted for further details 3 The validity of the complaint will be ascertained and the customer will be notified of receipt of his/her
for further details 3 The validity of the complaint will be ascertained and the customer will be notified of receipt of his/her complaint 4 The complaint will be evaluated and the complainant will be notified with the proposed solution 5 Should the solution be to the satisfaction of the customer, the complaint will be considered resolved. Appropriate short and long-term actions will be established to ensure that the same complaint will not be repeated 6 Should the complainant not be satisfied with the proposed solution, he/she may file an appeal and transfer it to the higher authorities at MOHAP Conditions & Requirements Complaints/feedback must be related to the MOHAP scope of work. Complaints/feedback out of MOHAP's scope of work will not be answered and the customer will be directed to the entity concerned MOHAP is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of information provided by customers Service completion duration Urgent complaints: within 1 working day Normal complaints:
of information provided by customers Service completion duration Urgent complaints: within 1 working day Normal complaints: within 5 working days Complex complaints: within 14 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience The service is available for all customers Resources User Manual Infographic - Submit Complaints and Feedback - PDF 366KB Department name Customer Happiness Sector name Support Services Main service Customer Care Service Code 110-49-002-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business - Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes
Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes Complaints/ feedback must be related to the MOHAP scope of work Required Documents The following information must be provided: Customer name Customer contact number or email address. Complaint/feedback with all the details when using email, website, live chat or social media channels
Re-licensing of a Pharmacist Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Re-license to practice pharmacy: AED 1,000 About the Service This service allows medical and pharmaceutical facilities to apply for the re-issuance of licenses for employees in the pharmacy profession, including first and second official pharmacists and assistant pharmacists. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer (facility) must login through the account of the licensed facility, and provide the required information and documents as per the type of license. 3 The customer must refer the application to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 4 The employee concerned will check the application and if it meets the requirements, the application will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through
will be approved and sent to the facility for online fee payment. 5 The customer (facility) must pay the fee through the website, after which the application will be automatically transferred to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 6 The officer concerned will conduct the final review of the application with fee payment and accept the application. If the conditions are met, the initial license, renewal, cancellation, or change of title will be approved. 7 If the application requires a final license (issuance of a new license, re-licensing or transfer of a license), the customer (facility) must submit the required documents to the Ministry of Health and Prevention. 8 The employee concerned will approve the application, provided all conditions are met, and issue the final license. Conditions & Requirements The facility must have one official pharmacist Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Re-license to practice pharmacy: AED 1,000 Service
completion duration 5 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Re-license to practice pharmacy: AED 1,000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae   MOHAP Smart App Support  Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical and pharmaceutical facilities, first official pharmacist, second official pharmacist, assistant pharmacist Resources Pharmaceutical_Licensing_End_User_Manual_en PQR V Infographic - Re-licensing of a Pharmacist - PDF 372KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Licensing of medical professions Service Code 110-40-009-017 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 10442 Number of Transactions
to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 10442 Number of Transactions 542 Notes None Required Documents Contract of employment approved by the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation Assessment certificate List of controlled drugs (for official pharmacist) Emirates ID card Letter of No Objection from the facility Copy of passport Copy of residence license or visa
Submit Inquiries Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration MOHAP Website: within 2 working days. MOHAP Smart Application: within 2... View more Service fees Free About the Service This service provides individuals or organizations with answers and responses to their queries and provides clarification about various aspects related to MOHAP's scope of work, including the services provided, service provision locations, the status of transactions and general inquiries about MOHAP functions. The Ministry uses this service to reply to all such inquiries Service Process 1 The customer submits his/her inquiry through any of the available channels 2 If the inquiry is received through any of the direct channels (call center, service provision center or live chat), the reply will be made directly, providing the answer is available 3 If the answer is not available, the concerned department will be contacted to reply to the inquiry, and the customer then get the feedback within 2
available, the concerned department will be contacted to reply to the inquiry, and the customer then get the feedback within 2 working days 4 If the inquiry is received through other channels (website, e-mail or social media), the customer will receive the feedback within 2 working days Conditions & Requirements Inquiries should be related to MOHAP's scope of work. In cases of inquiries outside of MOHAP's scope , the customer will be redirected to the entity concerned MOHAP is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of information provided by customers Service completion duration MOHAP Website: within 2 working days. MOHAP Smart Application: within 2 working days. The UAEs Centralized Portal for your observations, suggestions and Inquires: within 2 working days. Live Chat: immediate, providing the response if available. Social Media Channels: immediate, providing the response if available. Email: within 1 working days. MOHAP Call Center: immediate, providing the response if
providing the response if available. Email: within 1 working days. MOHAP Call Center: immediate, providing the response if available. Customer Happiness Centers: immediate, providing the response if available. Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111  Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience The service is available for all customers Resources User Manual Infographic - Submit Inquiries - PDF 359KB Department name Customer Happiness Sector name Support Services Main service Customer Care Service Code 110-49-003-000 Service Classfication Informational Service Type Government to Business - Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles
Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 138 Number of Transactions 106 Notes Inquiries must be related to the MOHAP scope of work Video tutorial of applying for this service View video Required Documents The required information includes: Customer name Customer contact number or email address The inquiry details when using email, website, live chat or social media channels
Issue a Certificate of Compliance with the good Practice Standards of a Pharmaceutical Establishment Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 10 working days for inspection + 5 working days for certificate issuance View more Service fees AED 1,000 Inspection fee AED 2,000 certificate issuance fees About the Service This service allows the submission of a request to obtain a Good Storage and Distribution Practice (GSDP) certificate for companies that store medical products in the logistic warehouses in the free zones, that to ensure the quality of medical products by storing them according to the Good Storage and Distribution Practices. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit a request for inspection and pays the fees 3 Reviewing the application to ensure fulfilling the requirements 4 Performing the inspection 5 Obtaining the inspection report 6 In case of passing the inspection successfully, the customer will pay the
the inspection 5 Obtaining the inspection report 6 In case of passing the inspection successfully, the customer will pay the certificate issuance fees 7 The customer downloads the certificate from the website Conditions & Requirements Providing all requirements and documents Passing the inspection successfully Service completion duration 10 working days for inspection + 5 working days for certificate issuance Service fees AED 1,000 Inspection fee AED 2,000 certificate issuance fees Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support Import & export regulation section: import.export@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Companies desire to store their products in the logistic warehouses in the free zones as per MOHAP regulations. Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code
Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-026-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Licensing of a Pharmaceutical Facility Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Required Documents First: To obtain the Good Storage and Distribution Practice (GSDP) Certificate for the purpose of exporting to the UAE market and outside: The agreement between the Marketing Authorization Holder or the manufacturer and the logistic warehouse The manufacturing Site registration certificate (Mandatory) and the product registration (in case it's registered) in the MOHAP A valid Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) Certificate for all relevant manufacturing sites issued by the competent authority in the country of origin and legalized by the Embassy of the UAE in the country of origin A copy of the Free Sale Certificate (FSC)
country of origin and legalized by the Embassy of the UAE in the country of origin A copy of the Free Sale Certificate (FSC) and the Certificate of Pharmaceutical Products (CPP) for all products that are un-registered or having marketing authorization approval by the MOHAP, issued by the competent authority in the country of origin and legalized by the Embassy of the UAE in the country of origin, along with the countries planning to export to An authorization letter from a licensed pharmaceutical establishment with a valid license authorizing the pharmacist to be the pharmacist incharge of the assigned storage area in the logistic warehouse A valid license for the pharmacist in charge of the assigned storage area in the logistic warehouse The applicant's commercial license issued by the Free Zone Authority The commercial license of the logistic warehouse issued by the Free Zone Authority The marketing office license (formerly the scientific office) issued by the MOHAP License of the
by the Free Zone Authority The marketing office license (formerly the scientific office) issued by the MOHAP License of the pharmacist in charge of the marketing office Biomedical engineer qualification certificate legalized by the UAE Ministry of Education in case dealing only with non-pharmaceutical medical equipment List of the products that will be stored in the logistic warehouse (registered and un-registered in the MOHAP) Second: To obtain the GSDP Certificate for the purpose of exporting only (outside) the country: All of the above applies, plus: A copy of the marketing approval for medical products
Request for Health Statistics Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days, depending on the type and amount of data required View more Service fees Free About the Service This service allows health and media specialists to apply for specific statistics from within and beyond the Ministry of Health and Prevention. The statistical team provides the required data after it has been extracted, collected and reviewed. Service Process 1 Submit a detailed email explaining what data is required. 2 The Statistics Center will evaluate the application, ascertain the required period to gather the data and notify the requesting party. 3 The Center will then identify a relevant officer to complete the data, a member of the team will review the same, and the Director of the Department will conduct a final review. 4 The requested data will be sent to the requesting party. Conditions & Requirements All requested statistics are usually reviewed twice before being sent to
to the requesting party. Conditions & Requirements All requested statistics are usually reviewed twice before being sent to the authority requesting such data. Service completion duration 5 working days, depending on the type and amount of data required Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: sarc.request@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: sarc.request@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: sarc.request@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 8011111 Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Health Specialists and and health authorities Resources Infographic - Applications for Health Statistics from Public and Media - PDF 404KB MOHAP Request Health Statistical Data User Guide v1 EN.pdf Department name Statistics and Research Center Sector name Public Health Main service Medical Research and Healthcare Data Service Code 110-15-005-000 Service Classfication Informational Service Type Government to
Medical Research and Healthcare Data Service Code 110-15-005-000 Service Classfication Informational Service Type Government to Customer - Government to Government Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes The service is limited to information related to the scope of work of the Ministry. Required Documents An email with a detailed explanation of the type of statistical data required Fill in the requirements if the application is submitted through the website A completed confidentiality form when the application is submitted by a third party
Issue of a 24-Hour Pharmacy Work Permit Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 3 working days View more Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Per year: AED 6000 About the Service This service allows pharmacies to obtain a license to operate a 24-hour licensed pharmacy. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Submit the application and pay the fee. 3 The documents will be verified and if conditions and requirements are met, the request will be accepted. 4 Pay the service fee. 5 An email notification of the approval is sent and the applicant should upload the permit. 6 In case the request does not meet the requirements, the application will be returned to the applicant to attach the required documents and re-submit it. 7 If the conditions are not met, the application will be permanently rejected and closed. Conditions & Requirements The facility's license must be valid for 2 months before expiry. The
permanently rejected and closed. Conditions & Requirements The facility's license must be valid for 2 months before expiry. The facility's license must include at least four pharmacists, each with a valid license. One of the four pharmacists should be pharmacist in charge. The work permit will be suspended if the facility's license is expired. The work permit will be suspended if the license of the pharmacist in charge is expired. Pharmacies licensed to operate 24 hours must have a licensed pharmacist present at all times (the pharmacy must have 4 licensed pharmacists). FAQ’s Can the permit be renewed? No, a new application must be submitted. Is the permit granted to licensed pharmacies in Dubai and Abu Dhabi? No, the permit is granted only to pharmacies licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention. Service completion duration 3 working days Service fees Application fees: AED 100 Per year: AED 6000 For 6 months: AED 3000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP
fees Application fees: AED 100 Per year: AED 6000 For 6 months: AED 3000 Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website  www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP SmartApp Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies licensed by the Ministry of Health and Prevention Resources Infographic - Issue of a 24-Hour Pharmacy Work Permit - PDF 368KB Ministerial Resolution No. 932 of 2012 regarding the health and technical conditions that must be met in private pharmacies (Available in Arabic only) User Manual - Issue 24 Hour Work Permit for Pharmacy Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical Establishment Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-03-006-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service
Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 44 Number of Transactions 48 Notes None Required Documents Request letter signed by owner requesting for 24-hour work permit Valid licenses of the four pharmacists of the facility License of pharmacists in-charge with their contact information
Submit Suggestions Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Normal suggestion: within 14 working days Complex suggestion: within 30... View more Service fees Free About the Service This service allows customers to submit their suggestions and ideas on various aspects related to MOHAP’s scope of work, including the services provided, services provision methods, the work environment, or the employees. MOHAP studies and evaluates these suggestions and responds to the customers Service Process 1 The customer submits his/her suggestion through the available channels. 2 The suggestion is assessed, classified, and submitted to the specialized business entity. The customer might be contacted for further details. 3 The suggestion is investigated; then the customer will be informed of any decisions. 4 If the suggestion is accepted, an implementation plan is created. 5 The best suggestions that are implemented are recognized and honored. Conditions & Requirements 1.
plan is created. 5 The best suggestions that are implemented are recognized and honored. Conditions & Requirements 1. Suggestions shall be related to the MOHAP scope of work. For suggestions/ideas out of MOHAP scope, the customer will be directed to the entity concerned 2. MOHAP is committed to maintaining the confidentiality of information submitted by customers. Service completion duration Normal suggestion: within 14 working days Complex suggestion: within 30 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience The service is available for all customers Resources Infographic - Submit Suggestions PDf 359KB Department name Customer Happiness Sector name Support Services Main service Customer Care Service Code
Suggestions PDf 359KB Department name Customer Happiness Sector name Support Services Main service Customer Care Service Code 110-49-001-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business - Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Notes Suggestions shall be related to the MOHAP scope of work Required Documents The following information should be provided: Customer name. The proposed suggestion Customer contact number or email address. The suggestion details when using email, website, live chat or social media channels.
Request for support and coordination of health Research Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days, depending on the type and volume of data required View more Service fees Free About the Service This service aims to provide the necessary scientific support to researchers in medical and health fields within the UAE, as well as to support existing research projects and research proposals in the field of health and medicine in the country Service Process 1 Send the data. 2 The type of support required will be determined. 3 Submit an application for scientific support for medical or health research. 4 Submit a completed Data Confidentiality form, when requesting statistical data. Conditions & Requirements Approvals from the competent authorities must be obtained prior to conducting the research. Research must be conducted within the UAE. Service completion duration 5 working days, depending on the type and volume of data required Service fees Free Service
UAE. Service completion duration 5 working days, depending on the type and volume of data required Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Email: research.support@mohap.gov.ae Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP SmartApp Email: research.support@mohap.gov.ae Support Email: research.support@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 8011111 Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Medical and health workers, health and medical research, and researchers from various members of society Resources Infographic - Request for support and coordination of Medical Research - 358KB MOHAP Request Health Statistical Data User Guide v1 EN.pdf Department name Statistics and Research Center Sector name Public Health Main service Medical Research and Healthcare Data Service Code 110-15-004-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any
Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes The service is limited to researches done in UAE Required Documents Submit an email indicating the type of support required Fill in the requirements if the application is submitted through the website Complete and submit the Data Confidentiality form when requesting statistical data
Approval of Medical Leaves and the leave of the patient's companion Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 14 working days View more Service fees Free About the Service This service allows approval of Medical Leaves and Reports issued by licensed health facilities within UAE, for their submission to employers inside or outside the country and which exceed 5 working days. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Complete leave and medical report details and attach the required documents 3 Receive approved sick leave electronically from MOHAP website or mobile application (for download or printing) Conditions & Requirements Medical leaves issued from within UAE: The medical report must be attached, after the attestation by the medical facility and MOHAP, in which the medical diagnosis and the date of entry and exit from the medical facility are documented. Medical leaves issued from outside UAE (at the expense of UAE): A medical
and exit from the medical facility are documented. Medical leaves issued from outside UAE (at the expense of UAE): A medical report attested by the UAE’s embassy in the treated country must be submitted, including the medical diagnosis and the date of entry and exit from the medical facility. Medical leaves issued from outside UAE (at the Patient’s own expense): A medical report attested by the UAE’s embassy in the treated country must be submitted, including the medical diagnosis and the date of entry and exit from the medical facility. In case that the companion leave is outside UAE (at the expense of UAE): A medical report must be submitted in which the name of the companion is mentioned and attested by the UAE’s embassy in the treated country, in which the medical diagnosis and the date of entry and exit from the medical facility has been recorded. In case that the companion leave is outside UAE (at the Patient’s own expense): A medical report must be submitted in which the name
that the companion leave is outside UAE (at the Patient’s own expense): A medical report must be submitted in which the name of the companion is mentioned and attested by the UAE’s embassy in the treated country, in which the medical diagnosis and the date of entry and exit from the medical facility has been recorded. FAQ’s What are the fees for approval sick leave and companions leave? Free. Service completion duration 14 working days Service fees Free Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP website MOHAP SmartApp Support - Call Center: 80011111- Email: info@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels None - Service is free Target audience Patients and their companions (of all age categories) Resources User Manual - Approval of Medical Leaves and Reports- PDF 638KB Approval of Medical Leaves and the Leave of the Patient's Companion.pdf Department name Medical Committee Office Sector name Public Health Main service Sick leave and medical reports Service Code
Department name Medical Committee Office Sector name Public Health Main service Sick leave and medical reports Service Code 110-10-027-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Customer Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is linked with "Attestation of Medical Leaves and Reports" service Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 5866 Number of Transactions 15245 Notes In case of medical reports; this service will be limited ro leaves that exceed the duration of 5 days. Required Documents For the required documents for the following: Medical leaves issued from within UAE. Medical leaves issued from outside UAE (at the expense of UAE). Medical leaves issued from outside UAE (at the Patient’s own expense). In case that the companion leave is outside UAE (at the expense of UAE). In case that the companion leave is outside UAE (at the Patient’s own expense).
Issue of Permit to Import Medical Equipment Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration Pre-permit applications: Three working days - Shipment clearance applications: T... View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Shipment clearance issuance fee: 1% of the invoice... About the Service This service allows obtaining a permit to import medical equipment for the local agent who holds a valid medical store license issued by MOHAP. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit an initial import permit application before shipping from the country of origin, and then pay the application fee 3 If the requirements and conditions are met, the initial import permit application will be approved with sixty days validity, during which the shipment from the country of origin can be prepared. 4 In completion of the second stage, the applicant submits a shipment clearance application - upon obtaining the Air Way Bill (Air) / Bill of Lading
second stage, the applicant submits a shipment clearance application - upon obtaining the Air Way Bill (Air) / Bill of Lading (Sea) / Truck Way Bill (Consignment Note) (Road) - and pays the due fees. 5 In the event that the requirements and conditions are met, the approval is obtained electronically and the permission is printed from the electronic system. The permit is valid for sixty days from the date of its issuance and is conditional on the approval of the Ministry’s inspectors for customs clearance then the inspection for the release to loacl market (for medicated medical devices). Conditions & Requirements Obtaining marketing authorization approval from Ministry Of Health & Prevention. Products may only be imported by the local agent mentioned in the product’s marketing authorization approval. One commercial invoice is attached to each initial import permit application. It is allowed to include more than one initial import permit application under the shipment clearance
permit application. It is allowed to include more than one initial import permit application under the shipment clearance application, provided that they are all under the same Bill of Lading, Air Way Bill, Truck Way Bill (Consignment Note) provided that the shipment contains products subject to the Ministry of Health & Prevention only. Obtaining electronic shipment clearance permits. Inspection at the customs port by MOHAP inspectors. Inspection to release the shipment for distribution in the local market (for medicated medical devices). FAQ’s How to know the pharmaceutical or therapeutic product or alternative that has obtained marketing approval in the country? You can find the information on https://www.mohap.gov.ae/ar/services/Pages/drug-directory.aspx In the event that a search result does not appear in the above link, please send the inquiry to the Import and Export Regulation Department through the e-mail: Import.export@mohap.gov.ae How can I obtain the import authorization of
and Export Regulation Department through the e-mail: Import.export@mohap.gov.ae How can I obtain the import authorization of the Regulation of Controlled Substances and products for Narcotic Drugs, Controlled or semi-sontrolled products? Through the link: https://smartforms.moh.gov.ae/DEI How can I apply for a Batch Release Certificate (in case the product is a biological derivative and vaccine - issued by the Ministry of Health & Prevention according to the batch number? Please apply through: https://smartforms.moh.gov.ae/DEI How can I issue an import permit from the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation (mandatory for radioactive products and materials)? Please apply through: https://smartforms.moh.gov.ae/DEI How can I inquire about how to obtain marketing approval for the product? Communicate with the Medical Products Regulatory Department through e-mail: DrugReg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Service completion duration Pre-permit applications: Three working days - Shipment clearance
DrugReg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Service completion duration Pre-permit applications: Three working days - Shipment clearance applications: Two working days Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Shipment clearance issuance fee: 1% of the invoice value for the CIF price, not less than AED 200 per invoice Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App MOHAP offices at customs ports: only to release the shipment directly to the importing medical store after printing the electronic shipment clearance permit and presenting the documents related to conformity to the Ministry’s inspectors, and before distribution in the local market (for medicated medical devices). Service locations MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP smart App Support Information Technology: mohap.appsupport@mohap.gov.ae Import & export regulation section: import.export@mohap.gov.ae Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical store with a valid license issued from the
Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical store with a valid license issued from the Ministry of Health and Prevention Resources Minister Resolution No 22 of 2022 Regulating the transportation storage and distribution of medicinal products or raw materials used in their manufacture - Available in Arabic - PDF 806KB User Manual - Issue of Permit to Import Medical Equipment - PDF 1317KB Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Clearance, Import and Export Permits Service Code 110-02-007-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Related Services Licenses, for all medical products. BRC (Batch Release Certificate) for biological products. Authorization to import narcotic, controlled or semi-controlled drugs, for narcotic products, controlled and semi-controlled substances. Import permit from the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation (FANR), for radioactive products, materials and radiation devices.
permit from the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation (FANR), for radioactive products, materials and radiation devices. Inspection before customs release of shipments and before distribution locally in the market (for medicated medical devices). Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Users 40416 Number of Transactions 30314 Notes None Required Documents The first stage: Pre-import permit: The submission is made through the electronic system of import to obtain the initial approval for import before starting to ship from the country of origin, and it requires attaching the following documents: The invoice (Commercial Invoice or Invoice) issued by the manufacturer / marketing authorization holder, including the country of origin, production, and expiry dates for each batch. The remaining shelf life of the product must not be less than two-thirds of the total shelf life. Catalogue, or brochure or photos for each product arranged as mentioned in the
be less than two-thirds of the total shelf life. Catalogue, or brochure or photos for each product arranged as mentioned in the invoice. Valid US Food and Drug Authority (FDA) registration certificate, or valid (ISO13485 and EC) quality certificates, or valid Free Sale Certificate (FSC) from the country of origin, or valid Good Manufacturing Practice certificate (GMP) (upon request). Product Minor Variation Certificate (MVC) - if any. Valid product classification certificate (upon request). Authorisation letter for distribution in the UAE from the manufacturer to the local agent - for the products that do not need to obtain marketing authorisation approval (as per their classificaiton). An import permit from the Federal Authority for Nuclear Regulation (FANR) - to import diagnostic radiological devices that emit ionizing radiation (X-ray and Gamma rays), for example: radiography, medical imaging and radiotherapy, fluoroscopy, mammography, Radiotherapy and CT scan. Batch Release
for example: radiography, medical imaging and radiotherapy, fluoroscopy, mammography, Radiotherapy and CT scan. Batch Release Certificate (BRC) issued by MOHAP according to the batch number - in case the product contains human blood, plasma or tissue. European Directorate for Quality of Medicines and Healthcare (EDQM) Certificate of Suitability (if the product contains gelatin from an animal source). Import Authorization of Narcotic, Controlled or Semi-controlled Drugs - for Narcotic, controlled and semi-controlled drugs. In case of importing from the designated free zones in the country, the following must be provided: A valid MOHAP marketing office license of Marketing Authorization Holder (MAH). A valid certificate of Good Storage and Distribution Practice (GSDP) issued by MOHAP to MAH (Marketing Authorization Holder). The second stage: Shipment Clearance Permission: The application is submitted when the freight bill is issued, and it requires attaching the following documents: Air
The application is submitted when the freight bill is issued, and it requires attaching the following documents: Air Way Bill (Air) / Bill of Lading (Sea) / Truck Way Bill (Consignment Note) (Road), noting the necessity of shipping in temperature controlled containers, while adhering to the Ministerial decree No. 22 of 2022. The packing list must include the total weight and the number of packages. Original Certificates of Analysis (C.O.A) for all imported batches and must include production and expiry dates and be issued by the batch releaser (to be viewed upon request from MOHAP inspectors) (for medicated medical devices).
Issue of Permit to Import Raw Materials Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration From 1 to 3 working days for pre-import applications From 1 to 2 workin... View more Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Shipment clearance issuance fee: 1% of the invoice... About the Service This service enables customers to apply for permission to import raw materials and entitles local to use them in pharmaceutical manufacturing processes. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit an initial import permit application before shipping from the country of origin, and pay the application fees 3 If the requirements and conditions are met, pre-import application will be approved, and the applicant would be notified via email. The approved pre-import application is valid for 60 days from the date of its issuance, during which the shipment from the country of origin will be prepared and initiated 4 During the second stage, the applicant will
which the shipment from the country of origin will be prepared and initiated 4 During the second stage, the applicant will apply for a shipment clearance application - upon obtaining the confirmed air / land / sea freight bill - and pay the due fees 5 If the requirements and conditions are met, the approval is obtained electronically. The permit is valid for 60 days from the date of its issuance and is conditional on the final approval of the Ministry’s inspectors for customs clearance upon arrival at the country’s ports and before all medical products are marketed locally through the imported stores Conditions & Requirements A halal certificate must be attached in case the product contains gelatin All required licenses must be valid FAQ’s None Service completion duration From 1 to 3 working days for pre-import applications From 1 to 2 working days for shipment clearance applications Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Shipment clearance issuance fee: 1% of the invoice value for the
clearance applications Service fees Application fee: AED 100 Shipment clearance issuance fee: 1% of the invoice value for the CIF price, not less than 200 dirhams per invoice Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Service locations For support, contact us through the following channels: MOHAP Call Center: 80011111 Technical Support: applications.support@mohap.gov.ae For inquiries related to import and export: import.export@mohap.gov.ae Support For support, contact us through the following channels: MOHAP Call Center: 80011111 Technical Support: applications.support@mohap.gov.ae For inquiries related to import and export: import.export@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Local pharmaceutical Manufacturing facilities Resources MOHAP - ImportExport-AgentManual V4 Minister Resolution No.22 Infographic - Issue of Permit to Import Raw Materials Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Clearance, Import and Export Permits
to Import Raw Materials Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Clearance, Import and Export Permits Service Code 110-02-005-000 Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to other services Number of Users 41 Number of Transactions 1102 Required Documents The documents required vary according to the application stage as follows: The first stage: Pre-import application: Valid License of local factory issued by MOHAP Valid License of the pharmacist in charge of the factory Valid Trade License of the local factory Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CPP) to confirm that the imported material will be used to produce registered drugs Composition formula (CF) in which the Active & Inactive ingredients will be used for formulation of final products Manufacturing contract for semi-finished products GMP Certificate of the factory from which the raw material was imported Purchase invoice must include the
products GMP Certificate of the factory from which the raw material was imported Purchase invoice must include the country of origin, production and expiry dates Controlled authorization should be provided from the MOHAP controlled medicines section if product CDA/CDB/NP If the product is bulk, the Registration certificate (RC) is mandatory If the raw material is importing for Compounding pharmacy, the approval from Drug Dept is required The second Stage: Shipment Clearance Permission: Freight bill (air / land / sea freight bill(and the container should be temperature monitored and in accordance with Ministerial resolution no. (2) of year 2022. Packing list must include gross weight Original Customs Declaration Delivery order from shipping company Certificates of Suitability of Content (COS) Original Certificates of Analysis for all imported batches, including production and expiration dates, issued by the factory
Renewal License for Healthcare Advertisement on Social Media Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly license for a healthcare advertisement on... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for the renewal of a license to advertise on a social media account. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 Click 'ad view' to show a list of possible transactions; the color of the transaction bar will change. 3 Select 'renew and open the transaction' and change the date as required. 4 Pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will approve the advertisement. 6 Pay the service fee online. 7 Print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The renewal application should be submitted before 3 days at least before the expiry date of the
Conditions & Requirements The renewal application should be submitted before 3 days at least before the expiry date of the original license. If the customer is requested to make any amendment, addition or replacement of documents upon renewal, the application should be submitted as a new one. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Monthly license for a healthcare advertisement on social media: AED 1,000 per month or Annual license for a healthcare advertisement on social media: AED 3,000 per year Note: The fees to renew health advertisements are the same as those for new licenses; there is no annual license renewal and, therefore, new applications are required Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae  MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience
MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae  Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Chemical, Herbal and Natural Products Educational Health Campaigns Free Health Service Campaigns Guide to get printed confirmation of ad approval -renew - amend Guidelines for Health Advertisement Approval Requestion health Advertisement Fees - English Health Scientific Activities Health Service Abroad (Medical Tourism) Institutions, Medical and Health Services - Doctors and Health Professionals Medical Health Devices and Equipment’s Suspension or Annulment of the Approval Infographic - Renewal License for Healthcare Advertisement on Social Media - PDF 375KB Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-033-033 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary
Service Code 110-05-033-033 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Auxiliary Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Number of Transactions 2 Notes None Required Documents The e-system allows the use of the original approved application, under a new number, with the required documents attached.
Issue of quality report for medical product issued by Drug Quality Control Laboratory Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration A maximum of 30 working days from date of receiving samples and analysis require... View more Service fees Fee for a medical product quality report issued by... About the Service This service enables an application for a quality report on a medical product issued by a drug quality control laboratory to ensure the product's usability. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The assigned analyst will analyse the product and send a report to the laboratory supervisor for review 3 If the result of the analysis is conforming, it will be referred to the laboratory chairman for the issuance of a certificate of conformity and for accreditation 4 If the result of the analysis is “non-conforming, it will be referred to the non-conformity committee for a decision about appropriate further action, such as analysis
it will be referred to the non-conformity committee for a decision about appropriate further action, such as analysis by another analyst. The result will be submitted to the laboratory chairman for the issuance of a certificate of conformity, if it does conform or a non-conformity certificate if it does not conform, and will then be transferred for accreditation Conditions & Requirements All data must be provided in Arabic and English. The approval of the Director of Drug Administration for re-examination of new samples is required. Service completion duration A maximum of 30 working days from date of receiving samples and analysis requirements. Service fees Fee for a medical product quality report issued by a drug quality control laboratory: AED 500 Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Smart App Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Drug warehouses Local pharmaceutical
App Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Drug warehouses Local pharmaceutical factories Resources User Manual - Registration Services 01_Issue of Quality Report for Medical Product Issued by Drug Quality Control Laboratory Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Quality Control Laboratory for Medical Products Service Code 110-44-003-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services Analyzing and re-analyzing a medical product for a pharmaceutical institution and its subsidiaries Number of Transactions 1518 Required Documents Samples, and standard and reference materials for the product to be analyzed. Receipt of payment of analysis fee (or electronic application number with proof of payment of service fee). Receipt of payment of examination certificate issuance fee (or electronic application number with proof of payment of service fee). CD with
of examination certificate issuance fee (or electronic application number with proof of payment of service fee). CD with all documents and information, such as eCTD. In the absence of eCTD of the product, the CD must contain: Certificate of final product analysis for three batches. Certificate of analysis of standard substances, if the compound contains a therapeutic substance. Statement of composition certificate, including active and inactive ingredients, their concentrations and specifications. Certificate of final product specifications. Method of final product analysis and test validation methods (validation report for test methods). Analysis certificate for active and inactive ingredients in the finished product. If the analysis is constitutional, a copy of the most recent version of the constitution must be attached When high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) or gas chromatography (GC) is used for analysis, the chromatogram must be attached, and evidence should also be
(HPLC) or gas chromatography (GC) is used for analysis, the chromatogram must be attached, and evidence should also be provided when other methods, such as FTIR, TLC and UV spectrum, are used. Standard samples and materials: A sufficient number of samples of the final product (enough to analyze the product three times) must be provided. Primary reference standard, such as USP and EP. Working standard, with an attached certificate of analysis of all details. Related substance and degradation product standard for the active and preservative ingredients. If a special type of HPLC column was used, it must be provided to the laboratory. External packaging of the product and the enclosed leaflet, including all necessary data (batch number, date of manufacture and validity, storage conditions, name of commercial compound, name of manufacturer and country of origin, directions for use, capacity or volume, drug code if applicable, and any necessary warnings) must be provided.
License of healthcare advertisement for a Licensed Healthcare Institution in the UAE Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1-3 working days View more Service fees Application: AED 100 Fees for licensing healthcare advertisements depen... About the Service This service allows customers to apply for a license for a healthcare advertisement for a healthcare facility in the UAE. Service Process 1 Login to the MOHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS to apply for the service. 2 The customer shall register (for the first time) in the advertising licensing services program. 3 The customer shall log into the service, complete the online form and attach the required documents. 4 The customer shall pay the application fee (non-refundable). 5 The employee concerned will review the advertisement and documents, and either issue an approval or request amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fee online. 7 The customer can
amendments or additional documents. 6 Upon receipt of approval, the customer shall pay the fee online. 7 The customer can print the ad design, including the MOHAP approval and the start and expiry dates of the license. Conditions & Requirements The advertising license from the Ministry of Health and Prevention does not exempt the institution from complying with the requirements imposed by other parties in terms of services and products contained in the material. One account must be opened for each healthcare institution holding a license from one of the licensing authorities to practice the healthcare professions in the UAE. One account must be opened under the name of each pharmaceutical group upon registration, subject to their registration as a group with the healthcare licensing authority (with a list of all pharmacies affiliated within the group, stating the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be
the pharmacies' names, the start and end dates of the license, and contact details of each pharmacy.) One account must be opened for each commercial organization licensed by one of the economic departments in the UAE, provided that their activities are related to healthcare. Every healthcare institution is permitted to open one account. If more than one account is opened for the same institution, all of its accounts on the program will be frozen. Service completion duration 1-3 working days Service fees Application: AED 100 Fees for licensing healthcare advertisements depend on the category of the advertising facility's activity (clinic, healthcare center, hospital etc.) and the type of advertisement (print, audio, audiovisual). Click here to view the schedule of fees Service channels MOHAP Website: www.mohap.gov.ae MOHAP Smart App Customer Happiness Centers (for fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae     MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae
fee payment only) Service locations MOHAP Website - www.mohap.gov.ae     MOHAP Smart App Support Email: info@mohap.gov.ae   Call Center: 80011111 Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Investors in the healthcare and pharmaceutical sectors Resources Infographic - License of healthcare advertisement for a Licensed Healthcare Institution in the UAE - PDF 361KB.pdf Department name Licensing and Accreditation Sector name Health Regulation Main service Healthcare Advertisement Licencing Service Code 110-05-035-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked to any other services Service Bundle This service is not linked to any bundles Notes None Required Documents None
Authorize a Pharmaceutical Company to dispose any Pharmaceutical Products as Medical Waste Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 1 to 3 working days View more Service fees Application Fee AED100 Authorization Fee AED100 About the Service Request for authorization for pharmaceutical companies to dispose of any expired or unusable pharmaceutical drugs as medical waste to preserve the UAE's environment. Service Process 1 First - Destroying uncontrolled registered drugs imported from local agents: Communicate with Ministry of Health & Prevention inspector to inspect the quantities, match them with the actual stock and get them approved them by the Director of the Medicine Department. The pharmacist in charge of the pharmaceutical establishment shall communicate with the municipality (Health Department) to proceed with destruction and obtain the approval of the municipal employee concerned after paying the prescribed fee. All documents shall be enclosed and certified
the approval of the municipal employee concerned after paying the prescribed fee. All documents shall be enclosed and certified with the stamp of the Ministry of Health in preparation for delivery of a copy to the parties concerned. 2 Second: Destroying controlled drugs, Class A and B, imported from a local agent and distributed to licensed pharmacies in the UAE: The drugs to be destroyed shall be identified by the pharmacist in charge in preparation for their return to the local agent, as follows: -Communicate with the Ministry of Health and Prevention inspector to inspect the quantities, match them with the actual stock and obtain approval from the Director of the Medicine Department. -The pharmacist in charge of the warehouse (the agent) shall submit proof of the retrieval of these drugs and their quantities. - The pharmacist in charge of the pharmaceutical institution shall communicate with the municipality (Health Department) to proceed with destruction and obtain the approval of
institution shall communicate with the municipality (Health Department) to proceed with destruction and obtain the approval of the municipal employee concerned after payment of the prescribed fee. - All documents shall be enclosed and certified with the seal of the Ministry of Health in preparation for delivery of a copy to the parties concerned. - The pharmacist in charge shall submit a request for the administration of the drug to deduct the quantities from the custody records of the controlled medicines. 3 Third: Destruction procedures of narcotic drugs that are supplied to hospitals from the central warehouses of the Ministry of Health, as follows: All expired narcotic drugs are retrieved from the warehouses of the Ministry of Health and Prevention. A special committee shall be formed. Set a date to conduct an inventory of the quantities in warehouses. The quantity shall be destroyed in the UAE incinerator after being counted and approved by the Committee. 4 Fourth: Destroying
The quantity shall be destroyed in the UAE incinerator after being counted and approved by the Committee. 4 Fourth: Destroying unregistered controlled drugs, Class A and Class B, that are imported from warehouses licensed by the Ministry through a local purchase request from a public or private hospital, as follows: The drugs to be destroyed shall be identified by the pharmacist in charge in preparation for retrieval by the importer to obtain proof. Communicate with the Ministry of Health and Prevention inspector to inspect the quantities, match them with the actual stock and obtain approval by the Director of the Department of Medicine. The pharmacist in charge shall submit a request for the administration of the drug to be deducted from the quantities of controlled medicines in custody records. The pharmacist in charge of the warehouse (the agent) shall submit proof of the retrieval of these drugs and their quantities to the pharmacy. The pharmacist in charge of the pharmaceutical
proof of the retrieval of these drugs and their quantities to the pharmacy. The pharmacist in charge of the pharmaceutical institution shall communicate with the municipality (Health Department) to proceed with the destruction and obtain the approval of the municipal employee concerned after paying the prescribed fee. All documents shall be enclosed and certified with the stamp of the Ministry of Health in preparation for delivery of a copy to the parties concerned. 5 Fifth: Destroying narcotic drugs imported from an authorized agent, as follows: In the case of the presence of expired or invalid narcotic drugs, such drugs shall be identified and listed. A letter should be submitted from the hospital to the Medicine Department requesting the return of these narcotic drugs to the warehouse of the agent with a list of quantities. After approval of the application from the Medicine Department, the drugs should be delivered to the warehouse agent to be signed by the pharmacist in charge of
from the Medicine Department, the drugs should be delivered to the warehouse agent to be signed by the pharmacist in charge of receipt and a copy delivered to the authorised custodian of drugs in the hospital. The pharmacist in charge of the warehouse (agent) shall control and schedule the quantities of expired drugs. Inspectors of the Department of Medicine should be asked to inspect and approve the application in preparation for the destruction of the drugs through one of the medical waste disposal companies approved by the municipality. Following the municipal destruction of the narcotic drugs, a record of proof shall be delivered to both the Ministry's inspectors and the pharmacist in charge of the warehouse. The destroyed quantities shall be deducted from the balance in the custody records of the hospital's pharmacy. 6 Sixth: Free Zones: Medicines imported and stored in the free zones of the country for re-export to other countries must be returned to the country of origin for
and stored in the free zones of the country for re-export to other countries must be returned to the country of origin for destruction in order to preserve the environment of the United Arab Emirates. Conditions & Requirements The standard inventory of narcotic drugs approved by the drug department must be adhered to. An original copy of the drugs disposal form must be kept in the pharmacy and submitted upon request to the Ministry inspector. Service completion duration 1 to 3 working days Service fees Application Fee AED100 Authorization Fee AED100 Service channels Service Centers Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Pharmacies Pharmaceutical warehouses Pharmaceutical warehouses for export purposes Resources Certificate of Medicine Disposed - Available in Arabic Infographic - Authorize a Pharmaceutical Company to dispose of any Pharmaceutical Products as Medical Waste Department name Empowerment & Health Compliance Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of
as Medical Waste Department name Empowerment & Health Compliance Sector name Health Regulation Main service Regulation of Anesthetic drugs and chemical precursors Service Code 110-46-009-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 599 Required Documents The drugs to be destroyed must be listed by the pharmacist in charge of the pharmaceutical establishment and included in the relevant form along with the name of the commercial item, unit, quantity, batch number, expiry date and reason for destruction. The request is approved by the pharmacist in charge of the pharmaceutical institution.
Amend the Registration Data of a Medical Company or a Manufacturer Licensed to Market Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 10 working days View more Service fees Certificate of amendment to any registration data ... About the Service This service enables medical companies and manufacturers to submit their applications to amend their registration data. Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 Submit the request online, meet all conditions and pay the required fees 3 The competent technical committees will examine the file and refer it to the competent ministerial committee 4 Letters are to be addressed to the concerned companies stating the committee's decisions 5 The customer will follow up with the Pharmacological Analysis Section of at the Drug Control Department 6 The company should complete the requirements and submit them via electronic service 7 The relevant technical and ministerial committees will re-deliberate the
requirements and submit them via electronic service 7 The relevant technical and ministerial committees will re-deliberate the registration of products that have been deferred in advance as soon as companies complete the requirements 8 The certificates of minor changes will be issued after fulfilling all conditions and requirements approved by MOHAP Conditions & Requirements The applicant must be a medical warehouse licensed by MOHAP and must hold a valid license. The Company must provide the valid approval of the competent authorities in the country of origin regarding such submitted changes. FAQ’s What are the fees for the issuance of an amendment certificate concerning any registration date of a medical company or a manufacturer holding the marketing rights? Amendment certificate concerning any registration date of a medical company or a manufacturer holding the marketing rights: AED2,000. What is the average length of time for the issuance of an amendment certificate concerning
the marketing rights: AED2,000. What is the average length of time for the issuance of an amendment certificate concerning any registration date of a medical company or a manufacturer holding the marketing rights? 10 working days. What channels are available to apply for the issuance of an amendment certificate concerning any registration date of a medical company or a manufacturer holding the marketing rights? MOHAP Website and Smart Application. Service completion duration 10 working days Service fees Certificate of amendment to any registration data of a medical company or a manufacturer with marketing rights: 2000 AED Service channels MOHAP Website MOHAP Mobile App Service locations Mohab Website MOHAP Smart Application Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Medical warehouses Local Pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing offices Resources Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Site Registration -
Local Pharmaceutical manufacturers Marketing offices Resources Help Manual Login User Manual Portal Manual Site Registration - External User Manual Infographic_Issue of a Certificate to Amend the Registration Data of a Medical Company or a Manufacturer Licensed to Market Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-009-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Related Services This service is not linked with other services Service Bundle This service is not linked with any service packages Number of Users 14 Number of Transactions 78 Required Documents A legalized letter issued by the company on its original letterhead, signed and stamped by the responsible person in the company, authorizing a person or a local establishment to submit the registration file on its behalf, to the Drug Control Department. Attested true by UAE
or a local establishment to submit the registration file on its behalf, to the Drug Control Department. Attested true by UAE Embassy. This person / the local establishment will be responsible to receive the registration certificate from the Drug Control Department Legalized Current GMP Certificate Issued By The Competent Authority In Country Of origin. (Attested True By The UAE Embassy In country of origin). Legalized Valid Manufacturing License Issued By The Competent Authority In Country Of Origin. (Attested True By the UAE Embassy In country of origin). List of medicines manufactured at the manufacturing site. Site Master File Certified copies of certificates of registration/ certificates of good manufacturing practice of the manufacturing site in other countries. A Declaration Letter Issued By The Company On Its Original Letterhead, Signed And Stamped By The Responsible Person In The Company , Showing The Details Of Minor Change With Existing Details & Proposed Minor Changes.
By The Responsible Person In The Company , Showing The Details Of Minor Change With Existing Details & Proposed Minor Changes. Current Registration Certificate Issued By MOHAP UAE.
Issue of a Certificate of Free Sale of a Medical Product for Export Start Service Bookmark service Service completion duration 5 working days View more Service fees Free sale certificate for an export medical produc... About the Service This service enables pharmaceutical manufacturers within the UAE to submit applications for a free sale certificate for a pharmaceutical product intended for export outside the country Service Process 1 Login to the MoHAP website or smart app using the UAE PASS 2 The client shall submit an application for a pharmaceutical product certificate after meeting all the required conditions and paying the fees 3 If the submitted documents are approved, a pharmaceutical product certificate will be issued electronically Conditions & Requirements Certificates of pharmaceutical products (for locally manufactured pharmaceutical products) valid for one year effective the date of issuance, provided that the validity period of registration of the product should not
valid for one year effective the date of issuance, provided that the validity period of registration of the product should not exceed (five years) Service completion duration 5 working days Service fees Free sale certificate for an export medical product: 1000 AED Service channels MOHAP Website Service locations Mohab Website Support smartservicessupport@mohap.gov.ae drugreg.inquiries@mohap.gov.ae Payment channels E- Payment Target audience Local pharmaceutical manufacturers Resources Help Manual Portal Manual User Manual - Registration Services Infographic_Issue of a Certificate of Free Sale of a Medical Product for Export Department name Drug Sector name Health Regulation Main service Medical, Pharmaceutical and Drug Licencing and Registration Service Code 110-04-012-000 Service Classfication Transactional Service Type Government to Business Sub Service Type Variation Number of Transactions 62 Required Documents A letter issued by the company requesting the issuance of a certificate
Variation Number of Transactions 62 Required Documents A letter issued by the company requesting the issuance of a certificate of free to sale of medical product for export Certificate of product composition which includes its active and inactive substances along with their quantities The internal product leaflet
